Prologue - Body

July 2014

Under the overbearing heat of the unbearable summer sun, a lone deer lies dead on the sloping footpath, one open, unseeing eye turned up towards the canopy of rustling pine trees, and the empty azure sky.

Two cars, bearing the crest of the Northumbria Police, scream past. Blue lights blaze. Desperate tyres spin.

The endless black tarmac cuts a harsh, ugly line across the Cheviot Hills. Rolling green fields and drowsy brown fallows. Sparse wooden fence-posts and old stone farmhouses. The country lanes can’t fall away fast enough, the miles stretching out in a taunting torture, white-painted road markings leering and sneering, “It’s too late. It’s far too late.”

Behind the police cars, an ambulance sprints along, rig rattling over the potholes, paramedics squinting into the glare of the afternoon sunlight. And for them too, the same cruel gloat of the tattered road: “It’s too late. It’s far too late.”

A body lies in Chase Valley Woods, pale limbs embedded in the brown earth, skin burned and twisted and red with agony and terror. A crucifix glints in the intrusive sun, bright gold a shriek of light, bone white. Sheared hair lies strewn all around, littering torn roots and tearstained eyes.

It’s too late. It’s far too late.

And that’s obvious, even as the sirens screech in the distance. That’s obvious, especially as the sirens screech in the distance. Something else has happened, something so much worse that it’s inconceivable.

Because nobody knows about the body in the woods.

Chapter One - Angel: Gordon

Two months ago

Well, I’m absolutely delighted with this delicious weather, to be quite perfectly honest, Officer. Finally summer has decided to arrive and the sun’s out (guns out, of course), and it actually feels like the end of May.

Which is considerably more than I can say for last week, truth told, and I’m just telling it like it is, so I feel no regrets at all when I say it had no right to piss it down like it did. Disgusting behaviour, the like of which you might expect from a Year Seven or something, but not… not from something as ancient and supposedly wise and mature as the sky. Which was in disgrace.

Until the rain stopped yesterday morning, and the sun decided it was going to do its job and roast the muddy ground into something resembling terra firma. It’s always the same when it rains for more than an hour or so at a time, you see: Chase Valley turns into a swamp, because the lake overflows and turns everything into a sticky goddamn mess. Looks like my brother’s cooking, actually, and he’s nearly as big a disappointment to the Benn family as I am.

So you can imagine I was a bit worried—until yesterday, at least—that Soph was going to have to cancel her birthday camping trip, since we’re going to be using the field by the lake, but that seems to be OK now. The grass still looks a bit disgusting all matted, but at least it’s fairly dry. I love camping a lot, and I love Soph a lot—she’s top—but there are things even I will not do for love, and one of those things is sleeping in a cesspit of sludge.

But the sun—which, like certain people, doesn’t do so very often—has finally come out, and walking home from school today has been a treat.

Usually we have to take the bus, and it’s a long, grisly drag over the grey, drizzly hills, along the lumpy road between Wooler and the Valley, but today—today, oh most merciful and heavenly of days—the ground’s dry enough to walk on, so we’re taking the woods route.

I love the woods. Summer’s their best time, I think. Broad old branches of bright yellow leaves hang overhead, birches framing the path into a twisting avenue. They make my friends look like some kind of vintage photograph, tinted all gold with age. Beautiful.

Quite honestly, I can’t wait to get home, though. All of this lovely weather has put me in the mood to write a poem or seventeen, so I’m going to dig out my writing journal and then shut myself in my room for a few hours, I think. Or I might sit on my windowsill. It all depends on what I can get away with. It all depends on whether Mum’s home yet.

So I’m gallivanting ahead when I remember all over again that it’s Soph’s party tomorrow night, and spin around on my heel, grinning at her and her boyfriend. “Oi, oi,” I say, flashing all my teeth, “Who’s looking forward to the soirée of the century, then?”

Sophie shimmies her shoulders and flips her gold-tipped hair. “Birthday girl, of course.” She laughs. “I take it you’re going to treat us to your usual spectacular dancing skills?”

“Oh, my dear Sophie, I would never come to any party of yours without them! How on earth could I deprive you of this—” (box step, jeté—narrowly avoiding tree—jazz hands, slut-drop) “—on your birthday of all days? That you would even imagine such a thing as—”

“All right, all right, I’m sorry I accused you of not dancing!” Sophie exclaims. “Of course, I would expect nothing else. I’m looking forward to your latest beautiful choreography. And your dancing shoes.”

I scoff, feigning offense with the palm of my hand pressed against my collarbones. “All my shoes are dancing shoes.”

Chris, Soph’s boyfriend, snorts with laughter. “As you’ve demonstrated,” he says, hiding his sniggers behind the back of his hand, “You know, if I didn’t know you better, I might be a bit, um…”—he raises his eyebrows and sticks out his jaw—“…worried about you, Benn.”

“I live to worry.” I spin back around on my heel, and carry on marching forwards. “I strive to alarm.” As the ground slopes up in front of me, I stop on the peak of the little hill, and throw out my arms. “I am the Swan Queen.”

“But we knew that already,” Chris says, “Ever since you got on the table in Science that one time.”

“Oh, come on, what was I meant to do? Mr Mayes turned his back for half a second. Everyone knows that’s what you’re meant to do when a teacher goes to write on the board, have a little boogie in the interim. Got to keep limber, haven’t I?” I nod at Sophie. I wink. “Just like everyone else.”

““Everyone else” didn’t get lunchtime detention for a week, though, did they?” she says, grinning, ““Everyone else” didn’t get told, “Get down from the table, Gordon; you are not the Angel of the North.””

“Fuck off,” I mutter, smirking, “Yes I absolutely am.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I rock up at the beach by Chase Valley Lake the following evening after a beautiful, sunny Saturday spent sunbathing in my back garden—a good tan is a must, after all—and a spot of time dedicated to TLC for my hair. Lovely, swishy fringe, set in place with a quick slick of styling clay. Delightful, if I do say so myself. And I do. Because I am.

Sophie spies me from the shallows, and waves me over, so I bound along the beach and fling my arms around her, shoving her present into her hands. “Bonne anniversaire, Sophie, you delicious wench. How’s your day been?”

Sipping at the cup of wine in her hand, Sophie nods, half-smiling. “I’ve been to Church.” Her eyes flick in the direction of the steeple at St Andrew Corsini. “Spot of Confession, as per.”

“Ah, Confession,” I say, grinning, “And just what did you confess to?”

Soph scoffs. “That’s quite literally between me and my priest.” She swallows, and takes another glug of wine. “Anyway. How’s your day been?”

I show her my nicely-browned arms (arms like potatoes, me) and beam. “I have been! To the Maldives! By which I of course mean that nice patch of grass beside the shed in my back garden. The weather’s lovely there this time of year, don’t you know?”

“Oh, I know,” Sophie says, “I seem to recall you and I spent most of a summer there when we were little. Year Three-to-Four, wasn’t it?” She links her arm through mine and pulls me over to a trestle table set with drinks. “Here, get yourself something.”

As I pour myself a rum and coke, she gets to unwrapping my present from its silvery-blue paper. And her lovely brown eyes light up as she runs her fingers over the embossed leather of her brand new notebook. “Oh, my goodness, Gordon, it’s gorgeous! Thank you so much!”

“You’d better use it for some nice poetry,” I tell her, “I will be very disappointed if it’s filled with…” I shudder. “…Tales of a sordid and pornographic nature.”

Sophie rolls up the paper and swats my arm as if I’m a mosquito. I fucking hate mosquitoes. “Shut the fuck up, you dickhead!”

“Ooh, look out, corporal punishment,” I down half my drink. “Fifty Shades of Sophie. Chris had better watch out!”

In half a second, she swoops an arm over my head and puts me in a headlock, plucking my glasses off my face and putting them on over her own. “Bad, bad Gordon,” she says, bopping my nose with the tip of one manicured finger. “Bloody bastard man.” Then she tussles my hair and lets me go, prodding me in the chest. “You’re lucky I love you. Come on, come and say hello to the others. Scott’s building a campfire!”

As Sophie drags me up the slope to the ring of stones where everyone builds their fires here, I catch my first glimpse of Scott this evening… and… Oh, wow, OK… Lena would definitely kill me for saying this—maybe even for thinking it—but he has literally no right to look that good when he’s covered in sweat from chopping firewood or whatever the fuck he’s been doing all day. No shirt. Dirty hands. Swept-up hair. Scott Noon. That beautiful man. As if I could ever look that good or… be noticed by someone who does. Fucking Hell.

He looks up from a pile of punk and grins. “Hey, Gordy!” he says, “Come and sit with me, break up some kindling.” He picks up a bundle of birch twigs as I approach, and presses them into my hands. “This is gonna be the campfire to end all campfires, or, so help me, may God strike me down—”

Lena clears her throat loudly, gets up off the log she’s been sitting on this whole time, and rests her hands on Scott’s shoulders. Her golden-blonde hair dangles over his sandy-blonde tufts, and he looks up at her, beaming.

“Sorry, Lena, love,” he says, stretching up and pecking her on the cheek. “Aw, you’re cute.”

Her silver crucifix pendant glittering at her throat, Lena straightens up and opens her arms out to me. “Here, come and have a hug, Gordon.” She grins. “Loving the tan, by the way.”

“Aw, many thank,” I say, hugging her. And then I notice that there’s no drink in her hands, no drink at all, at a party. “Lena, Lena, Lena,” I say, “What are you going to do when you get terribly dehydrated? It’s very hot out here—”

“It’s like eighteen degrees!” Lena retorts, “I’d hardly call that—”

“Ah, semantics, semantics! I don’t give a heck about semantics. Come on, let’s get you a drink.”

She shrugs. “I’m fine. I had a cup of tea before I came here.”

“Pooh, gosh, you are living the high life, aren’t you, Miss Szczepanski? Stimulants after noon and all that.” I slurp up a mouthful of my drink, and then realise what I’ve said. What I’ve implied. And spray the rum and coke out of my nose, laughing but, oh, God, cringing with the burn of it. “Oh, wait, shit, no, I didn’t mean—” I clap my hand over my mouth, and look from her to Scott to her and back again. “Not that you’re—”

Lena turns bright pink, and smacks me matily in the chest. “Did nobody ever tell you to stop digging once you’re in a hole?” She hugs me again. “You’re a very silly boy. Do you know that? Come on, make yourself useful and give Scott a hand with the twigs, there’s a chap.”

Oh, sure, yeah, I’d love to give Scott a hand—Fucking Hell. With the twigs. With the fucking twigs, Gordon. Yeah, I deserve to be in disgrace here, and I absolutely deserve the furious glare I’m getting from Lena. (Shit, can she hear my thoughts? Fuck. Sorry, Lena. I’ll stop thinking.)

I sit down, legs crossed, next to Scott, and start snapping birch twigs in half. Some of them are three or four feet long, and while they would be absolutely perfect for a stick war, I don’t think Sophie wants her birthday party to descend into violence. And they’re far too long to go in the middle of the campfire, so. Get me some kindling, and make it snappy.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Later, as the fire roars, I pour myself another drink, neat white rum this time—I love a coconut, me—and bop back to the fire, nodding—in an extremely cool way—in time to M83’s “Midnight City”.

Chris gave Soph the album CD earlier, for her birthday, and she’s already ripped it onto her phone, that speedy, speedy girl. Now it’s straining from the tinny speakers, and we’re all dancing around the fire.

Well. Nearly all dancing around the fire. Sophie’s actually gone to have a little lie-down, something about overheating, sitting too close to the flames, but she’ll be back in a bit, once she’s cooled off.

In the meantime, I’ve polished off a number of tasty drinks, and I’m feeling absolutely marvellous, to say the very least, which I would never do. I’m feeling absolutely marvellous, and gorgeous, and joyful, and delicious, and—

Scott catches me in the middle of a heel-spin, and laughs. “Whoa, there,” he says, holding my waist until the world stops swaying around us. “Hey, how much have you had to drink?” He peers into my eyes, and straightens my glasses.

I giggle. “A little more than I have blood in my body,” I say, “And a little less than there’s water in the lake,” which is dazzling under the stars, by the way. Tonight, there’s a sky full, and not a single cloud around to mar its reflection on the gently-rippling waters. (Where’s my writing journal?)

“I think you need a glass or seven of water” Scott says, wrapping his arm around my shoulder and trying to drag me over to the brook. “Come on. Have something to drink that isn’t alcohol.”

“Nah, Scotty, I’m fine,” I insist, because I am. In fact, I’m better than fine: I am fucking delightful. “Keep your water. I don’t need it. I’ve got my good friend, Mr Delicious White Rum. Have you met him?”

Scott shakes his head, prises the cup out of my hand, and empties it onto the grass.

“Hey, I was enjoying that!” I snap. I try to break out of the veritable headlock he’s got me in, but he is six-foot-one, and I am five-foot-three, and I have no fucking chance, do I? In any way.

Before I know it, he’s got me sitting on the ground, leaning up against a boulder by the stream, the Truckle Trickle, and he’s on his knees by the water, filling the cup.

He crawls over to me, and sits back on his haunches in front of me. “Drink,” he says, passing the cup into my hands. “Come on, Gordy, have a fucking sip, babe.”

I snort with laughter. “Well, when you put it like that, babe,” I say, “You don’t really give me much choice, do you?” And it’s not like I’ve never drunk the water out of the brook before. It’s clean. It’s slightly sparkly. And slightly gritty. (Like me. Ho, ho, ho.) Besides, if I have a fucking sip (“babe”, and I’m trying really hard not to read a lot into that, and it’s not fucking working at all. On the bright side I won’t remember a lick of this in the morning), maybe, just maybe, Scotty will get off my back and let me go back to the drinks table for more Mr Delicious.

(Rum, not Scott. I don’t want Scott on the table. (Yes, I do. (But I will never tell him. (At least not until I’ve had a few more pints of rum.))))

So I gulp the water down, smack my lips, and ask, with an obedient smile, for more.

“Good Gordy,” Scott says, refilling the cup at the stream. He sits back against the boulder as I drink, draping his arm over my shoulder and resting his chin on top of my head. “How are you finding the party, then?”

“Oh, my God, I fucking love it, yeah,” I say, “Soph throws the fucking bestest bashes, I swear.” Then I wrinkle my nose, and sniff loudly. “I’m not sure I like the owl you gave her, though.”

“Um! I spent hours whittling that, actually!” Scotty replies, immediately removing his arm from my shoulder and elbowing me in the ribs instead, “Cut it down from a lovely bit of a fallen branch, I did!”

“Yes, well, you know my feelings about owls ever since that incident on the school camping trip last year.” I pull away from him and his viciously fickle limbs, and tuck my hair behind my ear, so that he can see the scars I have where my sideburns would grow if I let them. “A whole year, Scotty, and I still have these! Owls are absolute wankers, and I stand by that. I am living proof that owls are wankers.”

“I know.” Scott grins. “But Soph loves them, hence…” He mimes carving one of the little bastards. And then he chuckles. “And in all honesty, I think she loves them for the same reason you hate them.”

“What, because they attack me?”

“One time!” Scott exclaims, “One time, and only because you climbed up a tree and started playing your guitar! That is the owl’s house, Gordy! How would you like it if you woke up in the middle of the night to find an owl crashing into your bedroom with a kazoo or whatever?”

“I wouldn’t like it. That’s the whole point.”

“Well, then,” Scott says, “Imagine how the poor owl must have felt.”

Looking away and shaking my head, I take another sip of water, muttering into the cup, “Owls can’t even play the fucking kazoo anyway.” (Or if they did, they’d be shit at it. That is the nature of the owl.)

And then hands clap my shoulders. “Gordon!”

I jerk my head around to see Lena beaming at me. “Fucking Christ, you scared the shit out of me!”

She casts her eyes away to the side, brows raised, and mutters something. Probably something to do with Jesus, but I am not going to apologise. If God wants to fight me, He can come and do it Himself.

“Anyway,” Lena says, “Sophie’s about to cut her cake. Are you going to come and sing “Happy Birthday”, or am I going to have to do my best Gordon impression?” She grins. “I’m not sure I can perfect that exact off-key baritone, you know. I wouldn’t want Sophie to be let down on her birthday.” Now she raises her eyebrows. “Would you?”

I widen my eyes, slurp down the rest of my water, and scowl at her. “Of course not!” Scrambling to my feet, I grab Scott’s hand, getting him to stand up, too, and link my arm obstinately through Lena’s. “I’ll show you “off-key”, Madam. I’m never off-key. I’m on-key, all the time, always. So on-key that I’m practically a fucking locksmith.”

Scott bites his lip, and shares a glance with Lena over the top of my head (bastards), but neither he nor she protest as I drag them back to the campfire with me.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Even in the light of the campfire, Sophie’s eyes are obviously rimmed in pink, and I’m nowhere near drunk enough (anymore) to believe her when she says that it’s “just the smoke making them watery”. Once she’s cut up the cake to a crowing chorus of “Happy Birthday” (backed by my guitar), she and I walk down to the beach, wading through the shallows until the cool water laps against our knees.

“What’s actually the matter?” I ask her quietly. It’s not that I’m worried anyone will overhear us. Everyone else is back at the campfire, bopping around to some playlist off Lena’s phone. I’m not sure why I’m talking so quietly. Maybe it’s something to do with the quiet of the gentle water. Maybe it’s something to do with wanting to be a bit gentle, myself.

Sophie stares out across the lake, at the flecks of starlight on the rippling surface. Her eyes fix on the amber streetlights dotting the village, and she blinks hard. “Do you ever wonder if you’re hurting yourself with the secrets you keep?” she whispers.

I laugh. “Uh, yeah. I’m fairly sure I’m fucking up my back, carrying them around. Why?”

She shakes her head. “No reason.” In her hand, she holds a piece of chocolate cake--baked by Chris and Lena yesterday afternoon--in a folded purple napkin. She lifts it up, squinting at it in the darkness, and takes a bite. A really big bite, actually.

Sensing there might be something of a wish to stop her gob in that, I nudge her in the side. “This wouldn’t have anything to do with going to Confession today, would it?”

She sniffs loudly. She doesn’t answer. She just takes another mouthful of cake, and chews in silence, not looking at me.

“Sorry.” I take a bite of my own slice of cake--it’s really fucking good, my God, Lena and Chris need to go on “Bake Off” immediately--and savour the light crumbs as I wait for her to say something.

But she doesn’t. She turns around and wades back to shore, the skirt of her yellow sun-dress wicking up the water as it glides along the surface.

Turning back to look out at the village, I stay standing in the lake for a moment, flexing my toes in the coarse sand as I examine the skyline.

The church. The houses. The woods. All shadows. All smudges of darkness. Only the smallest sequins of light here and there give any indication they’re alive.

Behind me, the music pulses, and my friends whoop. When I look at them again, I see Sophie wrapped around Chris, Lena holding Scott close, her face pressed against his shoulder, and the others--Etta, Tim, Char and Stef--huddled around the campfire, chatting away, cackling at every terrible pun that flickers out of Etta’s hands.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The next morning, I wake up to birdsong seeping through the white canvas of my bell tent, and I sit up groggily, squinting as I reach for my glasses-case.

My groundsheet crackles with my movement, and then Scott’s awake, too, blinking in the pervading sunlight. It’s like damp with how it gets everywhere in summer. Chase Valley. What more can I say?

He grins at me, rubbing his eyes. Still half-asleep, he yawns, his whole body arching off the ground as he stretches away the last traces of slumber. “How does a swim sound?”

His voice… His voice in the sleep-washed morning… oh, God… so crisp even in a mumble.

“Race you,” I say, kicking my way out of my sleeping bag and crawling out of the tent to run past the smoking remains of the campfire and down to the sparkling water. I whip off my T-shirt as I sprint, chucking it onto the grass as I remember with relief that I have shorts, not trousers, on. Got to save as much time racing as possible. I can leave shorts alone. Trousers, I couldn’t.

Scott’s legs are so much longer than mine that it’s probably against some kind of sporting regulation, or, at the very least, it should be. I believe in fair athletics, and since (highly rudely, I might add) nobody is signing up to give me stilts, it pains me to say so but Scott honestly needs his legs shrunken down to a more reasonable length.

He beats me into the water by what feels like a mile, and I’d be furious with him for that if I weren’t furious with him for splashing me as soon as I catch him up.

“You’re a bad person!” I yelp, ducking and covering my head with my forearms. It’s a completely useless shield, but you knew that already. I scoop up water with my foot and kick a swath of the lake in Scott’s direction. It falls pathetically short of his chest, and throws me right off-balance. I teeter on the spot. I crash backwards. The water booms underneath me, and I see my head shatter the surface and sink below as if I’m watching it happen to someone else.

Scott’s firm hands grab my own, and he hauls me back to my feet, sobbing with laughter. “Oh, my God, Gordy, that might be the most tragic thing I’ve ever seen!” He pulls me into a hug, slapping my back. “Are you OK?”

I shrug. “A little water never hurt anyone.”

Etta and Char stumble out of the girls’ tent, rubbing their eyes as they pick their way down to the lake.

“Darling!” I sign, beaming and holding my arms open for Etta. I hug her tightly, ruffling her soft, curly hair. “Beauty sleep is very kind to you, I must say! Did you have a good night?”

“Aside from Char kicking me in the shin thirty-seven times in her sleep, sure, yeah,” Etta says, darting her brown eyes at Char's, “But, yes, I am extremely beautiful for it, so who am I to complain?”

With one index fingertip, Char traces the path of a tear down her cheek. “Can I be beautiful too?”

Etta drags her into the hug. “Of course you can.” She plants a fat juicy kiss on Char's cheek. “Where are the others? Still asleep?”

“Ooh, looking for Tim, are we? Timberley-Bimberley?” Scott sidles through the water and nudges Etta in the ribs. “Do you want me to put in a good word for you?”

Char interprets it into BSL. She has a bit of trouble with “Timberley-Bimberley”, but, then again, anyone would.

Etta squints at Scotty. “Uh… Timberley-what, now, please? And no, I wasn't looking for him in particular, or anyone in particular, actually. I was just curious about the others. Lena and Soph are still asleep, obviously, but… Stef? Chris? And, yeah, fine, Tim as well?”

“Snoring away, last I heard,” replies Scott, signing “z-z-z” and grinning.

“Right.” Etta nods, and rolls up the turquoise legs of her pyjama trousers so that she can wade deeper into the water, her eyes fluttering shut as she kicks softly through the shallows, up to her knees. She looks up at the endless blue sky, and smiles. “Gorgeous day, don't you think?”

As she turns around to look at the rest of us, to watch our replies, her face lights up.

Behind me, like a war cry, Lena, Soph, Chris, Tim and Stef bound howling down the beach, bursting into the water with an explosive splash.

Tim leaps onto Scott's back—and there's not much of a height difference between them—and pummels his chest with his palms. “I do not snore!”

Scott reaches behind his head, feels for Tim's nose, and yanks it hard. “Oh? What do you call the horrible noises that were yammering out of this all last night, then?”

“Oh.” Tim climbs down, looking sheepishly at the sodden cuffs of his grey jogging bottoms.

“Ah, did Timble get his trousers soggy?” Scott says, turning around and laughing at him.

Tim prods him in the chest. “You're lucky I'm a Pacifist, cuz.”

“Nah, you're lucky I'm trying to set you up with Etta,” Scott corrects him, gesturing to her with a nod and a cheeky smile, “You know she asked after you?”

Char interprets, and Etta scowls.

“I asked after everyone, actually! No favouritism!” she retorts.

Scott winks ostentatiously at her. “Come off it, Etta, mate. We all know you've got a thing for my cousin over here.” He claps Tim on the back. “And he's got a thing for you, too, and we're all very tired indeed of you two tiptoeing around your feelings and refusing to admit you have them.” He beckons Etta over, and gives Tim a gentle push towards her.

Tim turns bright pink. “Shut up, Scott!”

Etta stands in front of them with her hands in the pockets of her lime green hoodie, and smirks. “You're the only one with a thing for your cousins, Scott Noon.”

In the shallows, Soph bursts out laughing. “Amazing.”

Lena elbows her, blushing the exact same shade—I’d call it peony if I had a damn clue what a peony actually looked like—as Tim. How's that for a family resemblance?

“Not in Chase Valley, I'm not,” Scott says.

He's not wrong.

There are about a hundred people here, and about five distinct family trees. Tim and Lena are cousins. Tim and Scott are cousins… Lena and Scott are cousins… but that only really raises eyebrows at school, in Wooler. Here? Most couples would raise eyebrows if anyone still cared. But nobody does. If you live in Chase Valley, and you're dating someone in Chase Valley, you’re probably related to them in some way. We're an isolated village.

Hell, even Etta and I have cousins in common: Alex and Gina, just over the border. Kind of wish Etta was my cousin, though. She's pretty cool, and I'd trade her and her sister, Angie, for my wanker of a cousin, Paul, any day.

Lena sticks her tongue out at Scott, and then tuts loudly. “Behave yourselves,” she says, “All of you. I don't want this camping trip to end in fisticuffs.”

Chris snorts with laughter, his arm sliding into place around Sophie's waist. “Oh, are you and Gordon not gonna fight it out for Scott, then?”

“What do you mean?” I say, way too fucking quickly. Fuck. Now I’ve fucking done it.

“Well, you were all over each other last night at the party.” Chris grins, twitching his eyebrows upwards. “I'd watch out if I were you, Lena. And I'd watch my arse if I were you, Scott.”

“Shut up, Chris,” Scott mutters, “Don't be an idiot. Gordon was drunk, is all. He was all over everyone. I just helped him sober up.”

I look at my feet in the water, trying to remember last night. Was I drunk? I don't have a headache, and I don't feel particularly hungover… but I can't remember much of the party. “What's this?” I ask Chris.

“Nothing, nothing,” Chris says, digging his hands into the pockets of the cutoff jeans he slept in. Then he laughs. “You're just a bit of a gay drunk.”

““A gay drunk?”” I repeat, and, wow, that was a fucking stupid thing to say. When will someone do the right thing and tape my mouth shut for my own good?

“Focusing on the wrong bit there, mate,” Chris says, sidling closer to me, “There’s no need to deny you were drunk. Everyone knows that.”

I shrug. “Well, there’s no need to deny I’m gay, either, then, is there?” I look around at the others. “Didn’t you all know? I kind of assumed--”

“I had an inkling,” Etta signs, but she doesn’t voice, and if she hadn’t been standing right in my line of sight, I’d have missed her motions entirely, they were so swift and subtle. Just a whisper of movement, really.

“But, yeah.” I turn back to Chris, nodding. “I’m gay. Drunk or sober. I don’t exactly hide it.” Then I frown. “You really didn’t know? Any of you?” I glance around at the others.

“No,” says Chris flatly, his jaw set in a line, “No, we didn’t know.” Turning abruptly on his heel, he strides back to the boys’ bell tent.

“Um…” Lena leans her head to one side and chews her lip. “You’re... really... gay?” The last word is a washed-out squeak.

I sigh. “Are you going to stomp off too if I say “yes”? Sorry I don’t subscribe to your narrow-minded worldview. I guess that’s just a perk of not being Catholic.”

“You don’t have to not be Catholic to not be a dickhead, Gordon.” She fiddles with her crucifix, fingering the silver chain. “Any more than you have to be a dickhead if you are Catholic. Or be Catholic at all.. You don’t… and I’m not asking you to be… That’s kind of the point… You can be whatever--and whoever--you want. It’s fine. It’s all fine by me. I just...” She swallows hard, and her eyes brim. “It really never occurred to you that you could just… come out--literally--and say it?”

“I just did,” I say, folding my arms and rolling my eyes, “Has anyone else got a problem?”

“Fucking Hell, dude, no,” Char says, “What do you take me for? Though… to tell you the truth? I just thought you were a bit on the flamboyant side, you know?”

“Oh, yeah, I know what you mean.” I grin. “Me and my dancing shoes.” Then I catch sight of Sophie’s fingers tapping away on the top of her other arm. “What’s up?”

Sophie shakes her head. “Nothing,” she mumbles, “I just… I need to go and talk to Chris. He shouldn’t have reacted like that. It’s not on. I’m really sorry. Give me a sec.” She wades back to shore and jogs up the field in her pyjamas, ducking into the boys’ tent.

About ten seconds later, there’s a loud groan--of exasperation, I guess--and Chris drags his tied-up bedding roll and a duffel bag out of the tent, throwing them onto the grass outside.

“Chris, what are you doing?” Soph exclaims, scrambling out of the tent and bolting after him, “Chris, he’s your friend! Doesn’t that mean anything?”

“It means!” By the dead fire, Chris spins around to face her, dropping his baggage on the grass. “It means I’m getting out of here before I find out anything else fucked-up about him! And if you’ve got any sense, you’ll do the same!” He grabs his bags again and marches off towards the bridge, and the village. “I’m going home!” he snaps, just audible as he storms away.

Standing on the spot, Sophie stares after him, shaking silently.

Notes:
If anyone knows a way to post a prologue "before" Chapter One of a work, please let me know, but as far as I know, there's no way of doing this yet on Ao3. I do apologise for the strange format!

Chapter 2: Sin: Gordon
Chapter Text
I fetch a blanket from my tent and wrap it around Sophie’s shoulders as she sits down on a log by the fire-circle. “Are you OK?” I ask, stroking her hair as she leans on me. The steam rising from her cup of tea—sweet char, made by sweet Char—lays a white fog over the lenses of my glasses, and I pull them off so that I can at least see her, even if she’s blurry.

Even without my glasses on, I can see that she’s crying. She shakes her head, and her skinny plait swings against her neck, flame-gold tip catching the sunlight. “Doesn’t matter if I’m OK,” she mumbles, “Are you OK?”

“Yeah, I’m fine,” I say, though… honestly? It’s not entirely true. It’s just not enough of a lie that I need to upset her more by telling her so. “Is Chris still… Is he still your—” I swallow hard, and lower my voice so that the others, standing around us, don’t overhear. “Are you still together?”

Soph shrugs heavily. “I have no clue,” she mutters, sipping her tea and chewing her lip hard. “Do you want us to still be together?”

“Not up to me, dolly.” I rub her arm, and cuddle her close. “It’s your relationship. I’m not going to tell you how it should be.”

“But I…” Soph shakes her head. “I feel like… our friendship is more important than that, and… and… if that’s the case, then I shouldn’t… stay with Chris… if he feels that way about you. You’re my friend, Gordon. You’ve always been my friend.”

“Chris is my friend, too,” I remind her, “Sometimes people react to things in weird ways, and all it is… is that they just need time to process what they’ve learned. That’s probably all it is. In a day or so, or maybe even in a week or so, he’ll realise he’s being silly. Maybe he’ll even apologise. But I don’t mind, either way. I know he didn’t mean what he said.”

With a nod, Sophie snuggles into my side. “You’re probably right,” she says, “I just wish this wasn’t happening at my birthday party. I kind of feel like it’s my fault.”

I tap the tip of her nose with my finger. “Oi, no. No. This wasn’t your fault. It was Chris’ fault. And maybe mine, too.” I frown. “I just kind of assumed people already knew. I mean, my parents definitely don’t, but, then again, we don’t talk about that kind of stuff in my house… so… but nobody knew?” I sit up, arm still around Sophie, and look at the others. “None of you? Really?” I shake my head. “Sorry. It’s just… I thought it was really obvious.”

“You’re always so cagey about who you fancy, mate,” Tim says, “I kind of assumed you were just private… and, as Char says, flamboyant. Didn’t want to make any other assumptions, you know?”

“Fair, fair.” I wrinkle my nose. “Sorry about my timing. That’s definitely on me.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Once everything’s packed up from the party, the field looks sad, empty, lonely. I guess there’s only one way to fix that: make it a promise that we’ll come back at some point for another bash. Hopefully next time without any massive fights.

Poor Soph.

Lena helps her pack her bag and her bedding roll, and then they carry their belongings home. They live next door to each other, always have. Quite sweet, actually, how they look after each other. I remember one time when Lena was off school with a bout of flu, Sophie made her a vat of chicken soup, and sat with her, reading to her and feeding her nourishing snacks, every evening until she was better. That’s just how they are, I guess. Kind of wish I had someone like that.

I say goodbye to the others, and then I’m gone, too, back to my house, back to my room, where I take out my guitar and sit on my windowsill, staring out up the street at the hills.

Char and Etta get back a few minutes after I settle in, Etta dipping into her house a few away from mine, and Char trailing alone up the street to her own.

It’s so quiet here, especially for midday on a Saturday. Usually there are cars popping to and fro on the road to Wooler, or a handful of kids trundling off to Kirk Yetholm, where Gina and Alex live. There’s a coffee shop there, a really lovely one, where we go to hang out sometimes.

There’s a coffee shop in Chase Valley, too, the one run by Soph’s family.

Today it’s so quiet that I think, just maybe, I can hear the crushing grind of the brown beans, the spitting hiss of the machines. The scrape of wooden chair legs on terracotta tiles. Music.

I’m not playing my guitar, just holding it close to me, hugging it like a friend. I leave the strings alone, shut my eyes, and listen to the near-silence of the village around me.

Even the house is silent. Warm, stuffy air hangs around like damp washing dangling indoors. Without even the slightest breeze, a thin sheen of sweat coats my bare arms, and sticks my T-shirt to my back. I feel like a music box done in decoupage.

Mum’s out. My sister, Tetty, is probably out, too, buzzing down to Prudhoe on the back of her boyfriend’s motorbike. She’s dating Lena’s brother, Archie. And now you see what I mean about Chase Valley being a small village. A small village is a small world.

With a sigh, I realise I’m not going to get anything done with my day unless I get out of this empty house and go somewhere. See someone. Do something.

I clamber off the windowsill, get my phone, and text Scott, to see if he’s free.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

After a long, slow cycle across the hills, Scott and I scratch to a halt on a gravel path in Kirk Yetholm, just outside the coffee shop we like. The heat is no better here, and I’m glad I took my shirt off for the ride. I think I’d have boiled like a bag of rice if I hadn’t, and while I’ve definitely caught the sun a little more than I might have wanted to, I’d rather burn than boil. I’m a toasty boy.

“Good shout with the coffee run, mate,” Scott says, wiping his brow with the cuff of his open flannel shirt, as he wheels his bike to a nearby set of lock-loops. Kneeling by the pedals of his bike, he secures it, and then nods for me to do the same, saying, “I’ll go in and find us a table,” as he pushes the door open.

The bell jangles after him, and then jangles again after me as I follow him in, yanking my shirt back on over my head. There’s a strict “no shirt, no service” rule here, which is fair enough, most of the time. Today it makes me want to set myself on fire, just so that I might have the slightest chance of cooling down.

Nicks looks up from wiping tables as we come in, and grins. “Hey, guys! Have a seat, have a seat. I’ll be right with you to take your orders.” Nicks has the longest, reddest hair I’ve ever seen, and, quite honestly, confining it to a hairnet feels like it ought to be a crime, but… hygiene demands, I guess?

“Thanks, lovely,” Scott says, pulling out a chair and sitting down at a table by the biggest window.

It’s one of these with panels which open up and fold back, to let in the fresh air. One very good thing about Kirk Yetholm is the very slight breeze that Chase Valley very distinctly lacks today.

I sit down opposite Scott. Leaning on my elbow, I crane my neck to catch the shifting air, breathing it in as I shut my eyes.

“You're like a cat in the sunshine,” Scott says, hiding his smile behind the back of his hand, “All cute and fluffy, with that little smile. You're adorable.”

That sounds… That sounds kind of… I open my eyes and squint at him, sitting up straight. “What are you saying?” The nerves at the nape of my neck start itching, and my cheeks burn.

I just came out this morning, regardless of what I might have expected my friends to have guessed.

And Scott has a girlfriend. But maybe I'm just reading too much into things. Maybe he's just being his sweet self, and part of that is staying exactly the same even though he knows now. Knows for sure that I'm gay, and yet he's calling me adorable? I…?

“That you look like you're enjoying the warm weather,” replies Scott, scratching his shoulder as he picks up the menu from the middle of the table. He doesn't look at me again, just waits and waits as he stares at the cake options.

“Right,” I say quietly, nodding. I guess that's a relief, but one I should have seen coming from a long way away.

Scott's sweet. Way too sweet to be… flirting with me… or whatever I was imagining just now… when he's in a relationship with Lena, who's also lovely. With Lena, who's a girl, anyway.

I guess this is just how it's gonna be with every guy I like. Ah, well. I'm happy to be friends with him, whatever. Friends, getting coffee, going cycling, going swimming… It's good. It's great.

“Oh, my gosh, they've got lemon drizzle cake again at last!” Scott exclaims, beaming, “I've been craving it for months and they never do it in winter!” He smacks his lips. “God, it's the bloody best.”

I grin. “That's because Nicks is such a amazing baker. You know it's true!”

“Aw, that's such a lovely thing to say! Thank you so much!” Nicks has finished with the tables and come to take our order. A grin. A flipped-open notebook. “What can I get for you, then?”

I always order the same thing in here. “Coffee and walnut cake for me, please, Nicks, and a lovely hot Americano with a vanilla shot. Thank you!”

Scott is beaming so brightly I half expect him to start dancing in his seat. (He’s the adorable one. I couldn't compare to him if I wrapped myself in a soft blanket and did puppy-eyes.) “I think you know I'm gonna have to go for a big slice of the lemon cake, please, pal. It's the best thing I've ever tasted!”

“And to drink?”

“Do you have the peach iced tea you had last summer?” Scott clasps his hands in front of him, like he's praying. And there are those big eyes.

Nicks laughs. “I'll see what I can do.”

As the door to the kitchen bumps shut, Nicks looks up, grinning at the short guy with tufty ginger hair. Nicks’ younger brother. “Hey, Duncan. What time is it?”

Duncan glances at his watch. “Like five past one. Your shift's over, Jules. You can go.” Then his eyes pop and he slaps his forehead with the palm of his hand. “Shit, sorry, sorry. Angus. But, yeah, you're free now. My turn to deal with the punters.”

The expression on Nicks’ face is one of massive exasperation, all rolled eyes and slumping brows, mouth open like a tragedy mask. “Customers, Duncan, the word is “customers”. And don't swear in front of them!”

I laugh. “Don't worry. It's fine.” I pat the third, empty chair, and smile. “Do you wanna come and sit with us when you're done?”

Nicks gives me a sneaky little grin. “Strictly speaking, I shouldn't, but I am dying for gossip right now. And Duncan knows I’ll kill him if he tells Mum and Dad.” A cheeky but devilish flash of teeth goes to Duncan. “Doesn't he, Duncan?”

When Nicks returns to us sans apron, it's with a tray stacked with our cake and our drinks, as well as a chocolate muffin and a pot of tea. “How are we all, then?”

“I'm gay,” I say, “Came out to the others in Chase Valley this morning, entirely by accident. I had no idea I was in the closet.”

Nicks snorts with laughter. “Didn't know, didn't know you were gay, or didn't know, thought you were already out?”

“Second one.”

“Amazing.” Nicks passes me and Scott our orders, and pours tea—rich, red-brown tea—into a white china cup. “How did it go?”

I suck in air through my teeth and take a gulp of my coffee. “Still waiting for Chris to come around, but everyone else is chill with it, I think.”

“They'd bloody better be,” says Nicks, reaching across the table and punching me gently in the arm, “Or they'll have me to deal with.”

“Aw, thanks, pal,” I say, squeezing Nicks’ shoulder. Then I remember how Duncan smacked himself in the head. “What was that about a moment ago? With your brother calling you—”

Nicks grins. “Oh, you noticed that? Yeah, um… it's a new thing I'm trying, to see if I feel more comfortable with a different name. ‘Cause I can't really ask my family to call me “Nicks”, can I? That's based on our surname. McNicholas. It's weird, you know?”

Scott sips his iced tea. “And Jules isn't making the cut anymore?”

With a shake of the head, Nicks starts unwrapping the chocolate muffin from its crisp brown paper casing. “Kind of… don't really want a girl's name…” No eye contact. “Kind of… not a girl…”

“Oh, OK. So… what do you want us to call you?” I ask. Nicks has been my friend for years, ever since my parents decided I was old enough to go out and about, to go over the border, without them. I must have been eleven or so.

“Um… I mean, you guys can call me Nicks, still, that’s fine, but… I’m changing my first name to Angus. So I’m going to be Angus Jay McNicholas. Jay, like the bird. ‘Cause they’re cool.”

“And ginger?” Scott says, smiling as Angus takes off the hairnet and lets that bright auburn swirl loose over one shoulder.

“I would settle for nothing less,” Angus says, sipping tea.

“So… you’re a guy? A man?” I really hope I’m understanding this right. I think Angus is coming out as transgender, but… I’ve never known anyone do that before. I really don’t want to fuck it up.

But Angus nods, beaming. “Bingo, yeah. And before you ask, yeah, you can tell the others back in Chase Valley. I’m getting super sick of all the “she, her, hers” stuff being attached to me. I’m a “he”. I’m a “him”. I’m a “his”. You know what I mean?”

Scott nods. “Awesome,” he says, picking up a cake fork and breaking off a mouthful of lemon cake. “That’s really cool, mate. Good for you.” He glances at me. “Isn’t it, Gordy?”

“Fucking right,” I say, reaching across the table to give Nicks a high-five. “Let me know if anyone gives you a hard time and I’ll fucking fight them for you.”

“No, no, no!” Scott exclaims, resting a palm on each of our heads. “Neither of you is fighting anyone. Neither of you is over five-five. I’m the one who does the fighting around here. You’re small. I’m tall. It’s my job to take care of you.”

“Nah,” Angus says, rolling up his shirt sleeves, and flexing to reveal hefty biceps. “I could bench-press you both. I’ll do the fighting.”

Thinking of my skinny arms, and of the fact I probably only weigh about a hundred pounds soaking wet, I look sheepishly at the table. “I have nothing to offer by way of competition,” I mumble.

Nicks and Scott burst out laughing, fuck-off powerhouses of sound and strength.

“Well, you also have nothing to worry about,” Scott says, “‘Cause you’ve got me in Chase Valley, and you’ve got Nicks in Kirk Yetholm.” He touches Nicks’ arm. “Not that you’ve got to stay in Kirk Yetholm, pal. Come and see us sometimes!”

“I might have to take you up on that,” Nicks says.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I want to say the rest of the weekend was lovely and cheerful and relieving, and that Chris apologised by Sunday night, but… I just can’t. It wouldn’t be the truth.

Oh, well.

I trudge off to the bus stop in the morning and perch on the back of the lone bench as I wait for the others to arrive. One bench isn’t really enough for everyone in Chase Valley to sit on, waiting for the bus to school in Wooler. It’s not that small a village.

Pulling my writing journal out of my pocket, along with a glittery blue gel pen, I start working on the beginnings of what I think will be a poem. Right now, it’s just a list of words I can apply to this situation.

Words like “whiplash” and “betrayal”. Words like “let-down” and “disappointment”. Words like “silent treatment”. Words like “cold shoulder”.

They stare back at me from icy white paper, asking when I’ll use them. Well. I will at some point. At the moment, I just need to get them out of my head and onto some paper, so that they’re not festering in the front of my mind all day, like they were yesterday evening, after I got back from Kirk Yetholm.

Would Chris have walked away from Angus if he’d been at the party, and come out instead of me? I want to say I can’t imagine him doing that, but… now?

There are a lot of things I want to say that aren’t true, no matter how much I might have expected them to be, two days ago.

Sighing, I snap my journal shut, and stuff it back into my pocket, resting my wrist on my knee as I twiddle the pen rapidly up and down between my fingers, like a drumstick. I can’t stop my hand shaking.

I can’t wait for the others to get here. I can’t wait for Chris to get here and sit down next to me and start chatting about his Sunday like nothing’s happened.

Fuck. I should have just laughed it off. “You’re just a bit of a gay drunk.” Yeah. Good one, lol. “And I’m a bit of a straight sober.” Fuck. I want my friend back.

Chris sidles up to the bus stop and sits down on a low wall across the street. He doesn’t look at me. I guess he’s already seen me, and that’s enough for him. He doesn’t speak to me. I guess he’s already said what he wants to say.

I look at my shoes, pretending I’m interested in their battered black leather, in the scuffed tips of their toes. I’m not. I couldn’t give less of a shit about my stupid shoes. They’re fucking ugly.

“Gordon, hey!” Stef hops up onto the bench next to me, nudging me with his elbow. He grins as I look up. “How’re you doing, mate?”

Mate. Yeah, I’ve still got him.

“I’m OK,” I say, in a voice I hope is loud enough for Chris to hear from his dry-stone wall. But I keep my eyes on Stefan. “How are you?”

“Good, yeah. Me and Char went into Prudhoe yesterday, caught that “Divergent” movie she’s been dying to see.” He chuckles. “I think I liked it more than she did. She’s a big fan of the books, so…” With a sheepish look on his face, he rests his chin on his chest, and coughs conspiratorially. “Not that we caught much of it.”

“Oh!” I exclaim, “Stefan Whitman! You are a scandalous bastard, aren’t you?”

I mean, it’s very much Char who’s the more scandalous of the two, but I think she might push me off the bridge and into the lake if I ever said so in public.

“There’s nothing scandalous about falling asleep in the back row of a cinema,” says Stef, giving a haughty pop to the collar of his shirt, and tossing his head, “What did you think I meant, Gordon?” He turns wide, innocent-looking eyes on me. He blinks. “I’m sure I’m completely incapable of understanding you.”

I shrug, and pinch the gel pen between my index and middle fingers, like a flapper with a long cigarette holder. I mime taking a drag. I pretend to exhale a fine, sharp plume of smoke into the morning air, muttering, “The world is full of mysteries, my dear friend.”

Stef snorts. “Dickhead…” Then he looks up, and gasps. “Char!” Waving her over, he pats the space next to him on the back of the bench. “Come and sit! Come and sit!”

Snuggling into his side, Char catches my eye, and grins at me. “Looking at something interesting, are you, Gordon, my little dove?”

“No.” I give her my very sweetest—and by that I mean my very sickliest—Hollywood smile. So many teeth. More teeth than you can possibly imagine. No, it’s more threatening than that. (Ask Char. She’s very familiar with it.)

Char reaches across Stef’s lap and swats me in the stomach. “You should save your wit until the others get here. God knows you haven’t got much in supply.”

“God knows nothing,” I say, “Least of all my limitations.”

“Yeah, you’re right,” Char replies, slicking on a bright red lipstick she’ll never get past morning registration. With a loud, deliberate click, she presses the lid back on and drops it back into her blazer pocket. “Not even God can keep track of all those.”

Stef laughs so loudly and so violently that I’m surprised he doesn’t fall off the bench. Also because I give him a well-earned shove in the chest.

When the others turn up, Etta and Tim shuffling along together as he struggles out broken sentences in basic BSL, Lena and Scott holding hands tightly, Sophie trudges up on her own.

For a moment, she stands on the kerb, on the tips of her toes, as if she's standing on the edge of a jetty, trying to decide whether the water is safe to dive. You'd think she'd look at Chris, but she stares at the paving of the road, stares at the tiny stones of the tarmac, a frown set into her brow.

Chris watches her, though. We all watch her, wondering if and when she'll cross the road. Which side—in both senses—she'll choose.

She reaches her hand to the spot where her collar bones meet, and pinches her gold crucifix hard. Even from where I'm sitting, I see her throat twitch as she swallows hard.

And then she squeezes her eyes shut for a moment. And then she comes to sit on the bench, comes to sit right in front of me.

And she stares right at Chris, I think, resting her chin on her fist, and her elbow on her knee. She stares and she stares and she stares, and I can't see her shoulders moving. I don't think she's breathing.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Chris keeps trying to get Sophie to talk to him, pestering her, tugging at her sleeve, all day. He passes her notes which she stuffs into her pocket without reading. He waves hopelessly at her across the classroom, in a vain attempt at eye contact, but she looks away, wing-lined eyes rolling as she watches the birds swirling outside the form room window.

Finally he succeeds in the corridor after lunch, when Soph and I are getting our PE kits out of our lockers. Ours neighbour each other. Chris' is a few feet away.

"What?!" Sophie snaps, spinning around on her heel and glowering at him. "What can you possibly have to say to me or Gordon right now?"

Chris puts his hands in his pockets and looks at the ugly beige-lino floor. "I want to say I'm sorry," he mumbles, "For walking out on your party, Soph… and for being a tosser. Gordon. I… um… I'm sorry. You're my mate. That's the important bit, and I shouldn't have… you know… said what I said." He looks up. He meets my eye. "I'm sorry."

Sophie sighs heavily. "Come on, do you really think "sorry" cuts it at this point?"

"No, Soph, it's OK," I say, "Chris… you've got to do better. But I can see you wanna do better, so… I'm gonna accept your apology." I hold out my hand for him to shake. "Mates?"

"Mates," says Chris, pulling me into a bear hug and clapping me on the back. As he pulls away, he reaches for Sophie's hand, but she twitches away from him.

"Not quite ready to forgive you yet," she mutters, "Sorry."

Chris nods. "That's OK. You don't have to forgive me until you're ready."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Honestly, I don't know why Sophie won't forgive Chris—or even accept his apology—when I was the one he hurt. And I can deal with it. I know I said "poor Soph" when it first happened, but… how come she's still hung up on it, when she knows I'm not?

She refuses to talk to him as we all jog out to the hockey field, even though he and I are running side by side, both trying to convince her everything's fine.

"Soph, come on. Be reasonable about this," I say, leaning on my upturned hockey stick as Chris hands out bibs and Sophie pretends to be intrigued by the patchy grass.. "Chris loves you so, so much. Please don't throw that away on my account. I'm OK, I promise. He made a bit of a silly mistake, but, honestly, I think he was just a bit… knocked for six by my coming out. Given time, he'll be every bit as accepting as everyone else. You'll see."

Sophie huffs, and thumps the ground with the curved end of her stick. "That's only part of it," she mutters, "There's a lot more to it than you know, more to it than you can understand. By treating you like crap for being gay—the way God made you, by the way—Chris is saying God made a mistake. And I can't be OK with that, Gordon. You know I can't."

I shrug. "I don't care. I don't believe in God."

"Yeah? Well, I do," Sophie says, hooking her thumb around the chain of her necklace and showing me her crucifix, as if I needed reminding that she's Catholic, like most people in Chase Valley. I'm constantly being reminded of how fucking Catholic everyone is. Pisses me off no end.

Sophie sets her jaw, and speaks through gritted teeth. "So I'm sure you'll forgive me for being uncomfortable with Chris turning his back on you for the way God made you."

I snort with laughter. "I don't think he'll be turning his back on me any time soon, Soph. That's kind of the point."

"For fuck's sake, Gordon, that's my boyfriend you're talking about!" she snaps, putting her hands on her hips and scowling at me with hard black eyes. "Can you try and take this seriously? This isn't easy for me!"

"Fine," I say, "I'm very sorry your boyfriend's a little bit homophobic. But I'm fine. And he's apologised. And he's trying to be better. So I don't know why you're getting so pissed off about all this. It's not like it affects you."

Sophie rolls her eyes and mutters heavenwards. "You have no fucking clue what you're talking about, do you?" she says, turning her eyes back on me.

I shake my head. "Apparently not."

Her mouth in a straight, flat line, Sophie spins around on the spot and marches away to the middle of the field, squaring up to Lena, who's playing for the other team.

I head for the goal, claiming to want to play defence. In fact I'm just hoping to chat to the goalie.

"Hey, Scotty." I lean on the goalpost, resting my elbow on the bar across the top so that I can lay my chin on the back of my hand. "How's tricks?"

"Tricks are good," says Scott, wrapping his arms around the top bar and leaning back, the sun on his face, "How are you? Have you talked to Chris?"

I nod. "We're OK now. I think he just needed some time to understand it. You know, that I'm still me, still the same person I've always been, just… with a label he knows about. Still the same mate he's always had. And he's sorry for being a dickhead. Sophie's still being weird about it, though, says she can't forgive him, 'cause it's like, an insult to God if she does? Like, it'd be admitting that God makes mistakes, and that's…" I trail off, shaking my head as I kick the grass. "I don't know. I'm just glad I don't go in for all that religion shit."

Scott wrinkles his nose. "Might want to be careful who hears you say that, Gordon. It's a really important part of life for a lot of people."

"Yeah, well… not for me. Never had much time for God, and honestly I feel better for it. Nobody to answer to, nobody to make me feel like crap for not fitting a certain mold. It's better that way. Believing in God is like having an imaginary friend who hates you."

There's a loud, harsh cough behind me. "Excuse you, Gordon Benn, but that's not even half true. God loves all his children. And He's not imaginary. He's very, very real.

I turn around, rolling my eyes, and see Ffion McDade standing behind me, hands on her hips. Her stringy, greasy hair is pulled back into a too-tight ponytail, and her pinched face is even sourer than usual.

"Who even asked you?" I drop my hockey stick on the floor and fold my arms. "Oh, wait, no, don't tell me. God did!"

"You're so fucking rude, Gordon Benn, do you know that? So fucking rude, and you don't even care!" Ffion pouts. "You should have more respect for other people's beliefs. I don't have a go at you for your atheism, do I?" Now she juts her jaw forward, arching her thinning eyebrows. "Do I?" she repeats.

Scott shakes his head, and steps carefully forward to put a gentle hand on Ffion's shoulder. "Don't worry about it, Ffion. Gordon's just having a bit of a tough time at the moment. Try not to take it personally, OK? He's not thinking about what he's saying." Scott darts his eyes at me.

Yes, I fucking am. I mean every damn word! Soph's religion is supposed to promote forgiveness, right? So why is it stopping her forgiving her boyfriend for something he said to me, even after he's apologised? Such absolute bullshit.

But I don't get the chance to say so before Ffion shrugs Scott's hand off her shoulder and snaps at him. "Don't fucking touch me! And don't tell me how to feel about Gordon disrespecting my God!"

Oh, for fuck's sake. I scoff. "Ffion," I say, as if she's three and I'm thirty-three, "It's only disrespectful if the thing I'm talking about is worthy of respect. Else, it's just called talking."

“What’s your problem with God?!” Ffion demands, shrill-voiced.

“Uh let me have a little think,” I say, holding up a hand so that I can count on my fingers. “I’m gay, so that’s a sin, apparently--” and I’m being deeply fucking sarcastic, not that Ffion seems to realise, because she nods of all fucking responses, bitch, “--and there is so much suffering in the world, and if God lets that happen, I don’t want anything to do with Him, and, finally--and this is the really important one that I’m surprised more people don’t get--God doesn’t exist. People who believe in God are just trapping themselves in an endless cycle of shame and guilt and regret and self-hatred, and it’s so fucking stupid. I’m not here for it.”

“You’re gay?” Ffion says.

”Uh, yeah,” I say, “Duh. Why? Are you going to have a problem with that?”

Ffion furrows her brow. “I mean… I’m not. ‘Cause I’m not a homophobe, but… God… God says… the Bible says…” She sighs. “The Bible says it’s a sin, OK? So… if I were say, “Oh, yeah, that’s fine, you can be gay,” then I’d be encouraging you to be… you know. A bad person.”

I look at the sky, stick my hands on my hips, and puff out my chest as I tap my foot impatiently on the ground. “I mean, I’m no Bible scholar, but isn’t there something in there about “hating the sin, not the sinner”?”

She nods. “Yeah. That’s what I mean. ‘Cause it’s… you know… forbidden… and, like… you shouldn’t… do it?” She chews her lip, and a bright bead of blood appears. She won’t make eye contact.

“Do you realise it’s not a choice?” I demand, “I was born like way. Or do you not listen to Lady GaGa?”

With a snort of laughter, Ffion curls her lip. “Of course I don’t. The stuff her music promotes--why would I?” She tosses her head, ponytail flopping like a landed fish. “And don’t be silly. You weren’t born gay. How can you be born gay? A baby doesn’t understand that stuff. A teenager doesn’t even understand that stuff. You’re only fifteen. You don’t know any more about yourself than I do.” She sighs, and tries to put a hand on my shoulder, like Scott did for her. “You’re just confused. But it’s OK. There’s time to change.”

Retching in her face, I swat her hand away. “I don’t want to change. Especially not if it means I end up like you. Or can I change without getting all buddy-buddy with your God?” I wave my hands around, all happy-clappy. And then I deadpan. “because I’d literally rather die.”

Ffion’s eyes burn with the beginnings of tears.

Ooh, yes, roll up, roll up, lads. She’s about to pitch a bitch-fit. Can’t wait. Cannot wait!

"Don't you understand? I'm trying to help you," Ffion says, her quiet voice cracking as she blinks hard and fast.

I snort. "Don't you understand? I don't want your help."

Scott takes hold of my arm around the biceps. "Stop it, Gordon." He pauses. Reconsiders. (Thank you, traitor. You're lucky you're so fucking handsome.) "Actually, stop it both of you Ffion, go to your position, and let's try and have a nice hockey game, OK?"

Ffion looks at the ground, eyelids lowered to shield her smarting eyes. "I'm a defender," she mumbles, "Mr Mayes said so."

Scott nods, and pats her shoulder. "OK," he says, "Stay here, then." Now he looks at me sharply. "Gordon, be nice. I mean it."

I tut. "Fine."

All through the lesson—two games, one each end of the pitch—Ffion keeps sniping at me for missing the ball. What's her fucking problem? It's not like Scott ever lets anyone score on us. And it's not like Ffion could know I'm doing it on purpose to spite her.

Bitch.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Tim catches my arm in the changing rooms, when I'm packing my PE kit into its drawstring bag. "What was that about? With Ffion on the pitch."

I roll my eyes and button up my school shirt. "Just Ffion being Ffion. You know how she is. And you can imagine how much worse she is, now that she knows I'm gay. All "oh, you're God's disgusting mistake, oh, you're going to burn in Hell, et-tick, et-tick, yammer, yammer". I'm fine."

Eyes wide, Tim darts a glance at Scott next to me. "Um?!"

Scott shakes his head. "She didn't put it quite like that… but she said a few things that might have been a bit…" He grimaces. "...misguided."

"Ugh, you can say that again," I mutter, bending down to lace up my shoes. "She was being a fucking homophobe."

"I mean… "Man shall not lie with man,"" says Chris, "The Bible's pretty explicit on that point.

I look up, eyes narrowed. "I thought you were trying to be more accepting."

Chris still hasn't done up his shirt. He folds his arms across his chest as soon as our eyes meet. "Don't fucking look at me," he mutters, fastening the buttons hastily.

I cover my eyes with my hands. "Oh, wow, my apologies. You're right. Your pecs are just so delicious." Rolling my eyes again, I take my hand away and fix him with my most scornful expression. "Get over yourself. I'm not interested in you."

"Right," Chris says, pulling on his blazer even so. "Right, yeah." He bites his fingernails. "I'm doing it again, aren't I?"

Nodding, I clap slowly. "Yes, please try and keep up with the others. We're all in 2014 already."

"Sorry." Chris packs the rest of his things away in silence.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

We miss the bus back to Chase Valley—we always do on days we have PE, not that I needed another reason to hate the damn subject—but it's another hot, sunny day, and so we all walk back through the woods.

There's an awkward silence… emanating from Chris like the smell of nervous sweat… and he kicks a lot of roots and loose earth around on the path before he finally speaks. "But there is someone?"

I don't realise he's talking to me until he calls my name. I look up, brow crinkled. "What?"

"I said, "There is someone?"" he repeats.

""Someone"?"

"Someone you're interested in," Chris says, "Like… someone you like. You said in the changing rooms that you weren't interested in me. Me, specifically. That kind of implies there's someone. So who is it?"

"Yikes," I say. I was not expecting that question. What is this, a girls' sleepover party? Are we going to have a pillow fight next? Do facepacks? (Though, honestly, I could go for that.)

"What's the matter?" says Scott, grinning as he nudges me in the ribs, and gestures at Tim an Stef, "It's not anyone here, is it?"

"No!" I exclaim, much too quickly to sound even half convincing. I clear my throat. Improvise, Gordon, improvise. "Why, are you offering?"

Scott turns pink, and coughs hard into the back of his hand.

Lena links her arm through his. "Ah, Gordon, I'm afraid he's taken. Hands off my lover, you cheeky knave."

"Oh. OK. Guess I'll just have to raise our cat alone," I mumble, pulling a sad face and then shielding it with my hands, pretending to cry.

"Oh!" shouts Char, signing along for Etta, "Oh, the heartbreak and tragedy of this tragic young tragedy! Cast out on his bottom with a Russian Blue to mother and only a guitar to learn a living!" She wraps her arms around my shoulders and leans on me, making us both stumble over the next root. It's not an easy way to walk, especially with Char's arms around my neck, hands still chattering away. "Won't someone step in and help?! Tim, you're basically a priest! Give this young waif sanctuary!"

"What, with his cat?" Tim says flatly, but with a smirk, "No, sorry. I think that might be a deal-breaker."

I howl into my palms. "Oh, God, no!"

“And I’m not a priest!” Tim adds, folding his arms, “I’m nowhere near a priest yet. I’ve got to take Holy Orders, get to better grips with Theology--”

“Wait, are you seriously considering it, then?” I say.

Char grimaces. “Sorry, mate. I shouldn’t have joked about it.”

Tim hugs her. “It’s fine. I don’t mind.” He grins. “So, Gordon, who is it?”

“Uh...” I look up at the sky, framed by the branches overhead. “...Nobody...”

Chris narrows his eyes. “There is someone. You’re keeping it quiet ‘cause--”

“‘Cause it’s nobody’s business but mine,” I reply, “It’s fairly simple. If I wanted people to know who it is, I’d say his name. But I don’t.” Out of the corner of my eye, I see Scott cock his head to one side. I wonder if he knows? (Oh, God, fuck, please, don’t let him know. I will die if he knows.)

“Well, if you won’t say who it is, how are you ever gonna get anywhere with him?” Chris says, “It’s such a stupid thing to keep secret, like, if you asked him out or whatever you want to do with him, then… people would find out eventually, wouldn’t they?” He stops walking, and turns around in the middle of the path. “Think about it. You’re kind of limiting yourself, keeping him a secret.”

I roll my eyes. “I already know it’s not gonna go anywhere,” I say, “I’m basically just… sitting on my feelings until they go away. Until I can move on to someone else.”

“Aw, Gordon, don’t put yourself down!” Etta signs, “I’m sure he’d love you! Who wouldn’t?”

I hug her. “Etta, my dear, that’s a lovely thing to say,” and I start voicing alongside my signing, so that the others hear what I’m telling her, “But he’s straight. And already taken.” Smiling, I shrug. “So that’s my chances with him doomed from the start.”

“He’s taken?” Chris repeats, “He’s straight?!”

I nod. “Yes. He’s also a guy!”

Chris’ eyes harden in an instant. “It’s me, isn’t it?”

“No.”

Sophie puts her hand on Chris’ arm. “Please don’t do this again,” she says quietly, “Please don’t--”

Without taking his eyes off me, Chris shrugs her off, face purpling. “That’s why you’re being so fucking cagey about this! It’s me! You want to fuck me!” He strides towards me, grabbing my shoulders. “You fucking creep! You fucking--”

“You’re not my type,” I say, smirking as I pry his hands off me, “I don’t go for arses. Well. Only literally.” (I’m a comic genius, quite honestly.) I can’t help giggling at that.

“Get away from him, Chris,” Sophie says, taking his hand and marching off up the path. She has to drag him. He’s not light. He’s not short. And she’s both those things. “Come on!” she snaps.

Chris throws a sneer in my direction. “Fucking faggot,” he mutters, finally following Sophie, who mouths an apology to me over her shoulder.

Scott puts an arm around my shoulder, hugging me into his side. “Are you OK?” he whispers. When I look at him, he’s staring at Chris and Sophie, and his eyes are wet and pink around the edges. He blinks hard, and turns to look at me. “Are you OK?” he says again, his voice cracking.

I sigh. “I guess I will be, at some point.” I tut. “Come on, let’s carry on walking. Maybe by the time we catch them up, Chris’ll have come to his senses.”

To call that “wishful thinking” would be an understatement. You might as well call Chase Valley Lake a puddle, might as well stand on the surface of the Sun and remark that it’s a bit warm. To call that “wishful thinking” would be an understatement, but I say it anyway. The truth is, I want it to be true. I want Chris to come to his senses.

And I want to believe that’s something that can happen.

Chapter 3: Baptism: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning - Homophobic Hate Crime / Homophobic Assault / Attempted Murder / Drowning.
This chapter contains scenes some readers may find upsetting. Please use your discretion.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
Char leaps out of a tree and plunges into the lake with a shout. The water shoots up around her like a circle skirt, and she disappears well below the surface for nearly a minute. And then she bursts right out again, brown hair drenched, shoulders covered in pondweed. “God, I fucking love summer,” she shouts, rubbing her eyes and then striking out for the jetty.

She climbs up onto the wooden slats to sit next to me, lake pouring off her, and leans over to look at my phone. “You caught it, right? My dive?”

“Of course,” I say, tilting it and shading the screen with my hand as I replay the video for her. “You’re like a lil kingfisher!”

Char kisses me on the cheek. “Thank you, darling,” she says, hugging me with one (revoltingly soggy) arm before scrambling to her feet. “See you in a minute.” She stands up straight, and pencil-jumps into the water, a flash of Tiffany blue in her one-piece.

The reflections of the sun and the branches on the lake break the surface up into a thousand bright shards, hiding Char under petals of light until she breaks through a few metres away, pondweed washed away, hair still plastered against her forehead. All I can see is her smile.

And then her smile falls away, and her eyes widen. She points over my shoulder.

I turn around to face the bridge, and spot Sophie and Chris picking their way down the footpath from the street to the beach on the north side of the lake.

Chris has his head down, and Sophie is pulling him along behind her. I can’t hear what she’s saying, but I can hear her voice, just snapping at him occasionally.

Quietly, very quietly, I whisper, “Fuck,” get up from my spot on the edge of the jetty, and run into the boathouse.

I’m not avoiding Chris. I’m not avoiding anyone. That’s not what I’m doing at all. (Even the notion.) I’m just putting my phone and my glasses away in my rucksack, which just so happens to be in the boathouse. It’s a total coincidence that it makes me mostly invisible to anyone approaching from the bridge. I swear.

It wouldn’t make a difference, even if I were avoiding him. He spotted me—or Sophie did—long before they would have reached the jetty, and before I know it, Sophie’s poking her head through the doorway into the boathouse.

“Knock, knock,” she says, grinning, “Can I come in? I’ve got someone here who wants to apologise to you.” She looks behind her, and I spot her eyes going sharp. “Properly,” she adds, “Isn’t that right, Chris?”

I force myself to smile. “Uh, yeah, yeah, that’s… uh… cool. Come in.” I sit down on the damp floorboards and tuck my knees up under my chin, patting the space next to me as Chris trudges in behind Soph.

Soph elbows him until he sits down, and then sits on the other side of him, pushing him sideways until he reluctantly shuffles up and closes the gap between us.

“Go on, then,” she urges him.

“I’m really sorry, Gordon,” Chris says, “I thought I was getting to be OK with it, with you being… being…” He coughs. “I thought I was OK with it, but I’m kind of… not… yet. I’m sorry. I know you’re my mate and everything, but it’s… it’s difficult, you know?”

I shake my head, shrugging. “Why would I know?”

Chris sighs. “You know what I mean, though, right? I mean, finding out that someone who’s been my friend for… for years… is…” He chews his lip. “You know.”

“Gay?” I raise my eyebrows. “You can say it. It won’t choke you.”

“Gay!” says Chris, “That you’re gay! Sorry if I can’t fucking get my head around why you’d want to—” He shudders, and his face is grey around the edges.

“Why I’d want to what?” I’m goading him, and I kind of know I really shouldn’t… especially not in front of Soph… but some part of me can’t help it. I show him all my teeth, and steel my eyes. “What do I want to do?”

“Stop it, Gordon,” Sophie says, “Go and have a swim, talk to someone else, and try and relax a bit. I’m sorry I tried to make this happen too soon.” She holds onto Chris’ arm.

I jump up and stomp out of the boathouse, footsteps echoing in the rafters. “It’s not your fault,” I throw over my shoulder.

As I stride back to the northern beach, I unbutton my shirt, and kick off my trousers, peeling off my socks and dropping them on the jetty.

I run.

I jump.

Water. Cooling water. Cradling water. Cleansing water.

I exhale, all my air drifting up to the surface as all my weight drifts down into the algae, feet tangling among the weeds until the fine gravel of the lakebed scratches between my toes.

Sophie’s right. I do need to relax, and I don’t think I can do that up in the open air.

The bottom of the lake? That’s where I belong, weight of the water pressing down on me like a fire blanket, smothering the blaze in my veins, silencing the crackle of my pounding heartbeat.

But I can only stay down here for so long before the fire spreads into my chest, burning off the insides of my lungs like peeling paint.

I kick for the surface, and, gasping, burst out into a wide, open sky.

New air floods me, sunlight washing my skin, a warm splash of summer and oxygen and bright, bright, bright. Even before I open my eyes I feel it, see it, red against my eyelids, capillaries lighting up as my blood sings.

I squint across the lake. I think I can see the others—Lena, Char, Stef, Etta —by the trees on the shore, paddling in the shallows, in their swimmies, or in their uniforms still, grey trouser-legs rolled up, out of the water’s way. Tim and Scott have gone home already. Catching up on homework.

God, that’s a long swim. But I take a deep breath, let it out slowly, and decide I’m damn well going to do it.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

By the time I reach the beach, my arms are aching and my chest is heaving from the exertion. All my strength is gone. I’m sure if I looked for my muscles, I’d find them crying in a gutter somewhere, like I like to imagine certain politicians doing. (Thank you for crushing my generation’s hopes of university not crushing our lives with debt. Absolutely top hole.)

I stagger out of the water as soon as it’s shallow enough for my feet to touch the bottom, and lumber onto the grassy sand, panting as I crash onto the ground, hugging my knees and pressing the heels of my hands against my forehead.

Char jogs over and hands me a towel. “How’s my lil Gordon, then?”

“Exceedingly tall, actually,” I reply, leaning heavily on her leg so that she has no choice but to sit down. I rest my chin on my forearms and look across the water.

Everything is a little blurry, like streaks of paint bleeding into wet paper. I’d quite like to be able to see as far as the bridge, but it’s all just… foggy. Maybe I should have put my bag on the beach, and left my glasses in it here, not in the boathouse. I don’t trust myself to walk all that way without either treading on something pointy, or having my legs just give up on me. But, to be fair to them, I’d understand if they did.

Sand rustles beside us, and Soph and Chris jog up, skidding into place, and settling back on their haunches.

I don’t look at them. Either of them. I can’t stand to look at Soph, and I don’t want to look at Chris.

“Sorry, mate,” Chris says again, after a few minutes of nobody speaking.

I shrug. “I’m not the one you need to apologise to at this point, Chris. I’ve stopped caring what you think of me.” It’s not true. But, at this point, I think I care less than Soph does… and seeing as I started all this by coming out when I did—at her birthday party, no less—I feel like it might be my job—at least in part—to try and fix things.

And, if that means pushing Chris to apologise to her before I accept his apologising to me… fine.

Chris doesn’t say anything.

I raise my eyebrows, and lean forward, turning my head to look at him. “Uh. Chris?”

He blinks. “What are you on about?”

“Sophie,” I say. (How is it not obvious to him?) “Apologise to Sophie. You’re upsetting her. Stop it, and say you’re sorry, you dingbat.”

“Sorry,” Chris mumbles. His pale, skinny face is long, the corners of his mouth sloping downwards. “I’ve been a dickhead.”

Soph nods. “OK.”

Char snorts with laughter. “Is that it?” She cranes her neck to look at Chris. “That’s the most apology you’re giving her? Fucking Hell. Be a better boyfriend.”

With the heaviest sigh, Chris sticks his middle finger up at Char, and wraps his arm around Sophie’s shoulder. “What do I have to do to make you forgive me?” He kisses her on the cheek, snuggling in close. “Or to make it up to you? Tell me, and I’ll do it.”

“Go to Confession and tell Father Matthew you were horrible to Gordon for coming out,” Soph replies, “And that you basically said God makes mistakes.” She wriggles out from the loop of his arm, shuffles away from him on the sand, and shrugs. “Other than that, I don’t know. And I don’t know if it’ll work. But it’s the best answer I can give.”

"And when Father tells me I'm right?" Chris says, "That Gordon is—" He breaks off. Says nothing. Sets his jaw. Looks out across the lake.

Oh. Oh. He was really gonna say it, wasn't he? He was really gonna tell me I was a… Fucking Hell. No. I'm not sticking around to deal with this shit. No fucking way.

"Nice, Chris, really nice," I snap, getting up and wading into the shallows. "Fuck this. I'm going back to the boathouse, getting my stuff, and going home." Sighing, I turn around, grinding my heel into the sand. "You had your chance. And you called me a mistake. Go fuck yourself."

I splash into the water as soon as it's deep enough to hold me, and stroke for the boathouse. I make it a few metres.

And then. And then.

Hands. Hands on my shoulders. Fingers in my hair. Weight on top of me, bearing down, forcing my head underwater until my face crashes against the sand.

I flail. I wave and kick. I scrabble against the lake bed, but it's no use. I’m weak from swimming across the lake. I’m so weak. I’m so fucking weak.

Nails dig into my skin, a terrible strength pinning me down.

Trying to fight it is as futile as trying to keep my mouth shut. Water forces its way into me, down my throat and into my chest, searing my airways even as my tongue thrashes against it, even as I choke and cough and try to get it out.

It clings to me. It digs in its claws and it clings to me, tearing pages out of me as blood howls in my ears, the sharp, brutal taste of metal overpowering the musty rumble of the lake.

Feet in my back. Heavy, determined feet, crashing down and down and down against my ribs, pounding and pounding and stamping and stamping.

The last vestiges of breath flee my chest, bubbles sprinting screaming over my face, forcing my eyes open to make me watch them run.

An explosion shatters my clouded vision. And then. And then.

Chapter 4: Blood: Sophie
Summary:
Trigger Warning - Homophobic Hate Crime / Homophobic Assault / Attempted Murder / Drowning / Forced Kissing.
This chapter contains scenes some readers may find upsetting. Please use your discretion.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
Behind me, Chris’ running footsteps crunch against twigs and roots. “Sophie, come on, what was I meant to do?”

I don’t answer. I just keep on running. But it’s like I’m having a nightmare, knees pushing against the soft of the mattress, every step a lumber in slow motion, the air in front of me a syrup I can’t push through.

“Sophie!” Chris grabs my wrist, and stops still so that I have no choice but to stop as well. His eyes are wide, pupils dilated as he stares into mine. Artificial blue. Synthetic blue. “Soph, please. You know I had to do it.”

I wrest my arm free. “Don’t touch me! Don’t you ever dare touch me again!” I’m screaming. I’m not even screaming on purpose. Why am I screaming? I can’t stop-- I can’t stop screaming. I can’t--

Chris pushes me against a tree and presses his hand over my mouth. “Shut up,” he hisses, “Or do you want to freak out the whole village?”

The knots and ridges in the bark dig into my back like nails. I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe. I shake my head.

“Good,” Chris says, grinning, “So you’ll be quiet, then?”

My quiet after my scream. Gordon’s quiet after Gordon’s scream. My stomach twists, leaping acid burning my throat. That could have been me. That could still be me.

I nod.

Chris’ hand falls away, and he stamps his lips on mine, a harsh kiss that forces my head against the bark. And then he pulls away, smiling. “Good girl,” he says, tapping my crucifix.

“You killed him,” I whisper, throat hoarse and raw. The tears… Every drop of water in my body is forcing its way out of my eyes. “You killed Gordon.” Black spots appear in front of my eyes, and my knees weaken. “You--”

“I had to do it, remember?” Chris says, “Just remember that. I had to do it. We’re better off without him. All of us. And that includes you.”

"He was our friend," I sob, "He was my friend. He was your friend." All of a sudden I'm back to screaming at him. "Your friend, Chris!" Every one of my limbs judders like I'm being electrocuted, and it just goes on and on as I remember it all. It plays out, a terrifying supercut, superimposed over Chris' face.

Gordon lying so still on the sand, so still, even after they pulled him out of the water. So still and so pale and so cold, so cold, I could tell even without looking at him. And his smashed face, his bleeding nose.

Etta trying to get him to breathe. Lena scrambling for her phone, finding it switched off, still, from being all day at school. Char and Stef running, running, running… for help? For safety?

And me running… Why was I running? Chris chasing me into the woods. Grabbing my wrist. And now here we are.

Here we. Here.

"Can't have friends like that," says Chris, his voice fading, "Can't have anyone like that hanging around my girlfriend."

I shake my head. "It's over," I say, but even my voice is quiet. "It's over," I say again, but it's barely a whisper. Much as I might want to yell it at him—"It's over, it's over, it's so fucking over, you piece of shit,"—the closest I can manage is a murmur.

My feet. I look down and they're bare and bleeding, torn up by the roots and the brambles and the stones. I'm a long way from the path. I've come a long way from the smooth ground. My feet. I barely recognise them.

Is the sun setting already? Or is there a storm coming in? I've never known it get dark so quickly.

Chapter 5: Resurrection: Lena
Summary:
Trigger Warning - Homophobic Hate Crime / Homophobic Assault / Attempted Murder / Drowning.
This chapter contains scenes some readers may find upsetting. Please use your discretion.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
"Hello, ambulance service. Is the patient breathing?"

I swallow hard. I look at Gordon lying still and pale, looking wrung-out like a dishcloth, on the beach. His eyes are closed. His chest is motionless.

"Hello, ambulance service." On the other end of the line, the woman's voice grows impatient. "Is the patient breathing, please?"

Etta kneels over Gordon's body, pulling him into the recovery position and checking his airways. She looks up, eyes wide and full of tears.

"I—" My throat closes up, and I choke out a son as I press the cold silver of my crucifix against my lips. "I don't think so. He's. He's not moving."

"Can you tell me where you are?" the operator asks. "What's the address?"

"Chase Valley Lake… Chase Valley… Wooler. Um… Northumberland. We're on the northern shore. On the— On the beach? By the boathouse."

"All right, Chase Valley Lake…" Her voice softens. "OK. All right. And what's your name?"

My name? Why should my name matter? I shut my eyes. "Lena. But it's not me I'm calling for; it's my friend. We pulled him out of the water, and he's… our other friend's trying to bring him around, but—"

"Oh that's something. Lena, you've done the right thing calling. Would you mind passing your phone to your other friend? I think it's better I speak to her. Or him."

For a moment I almost think it might work. I don't know much BSL, but Gordon could interpret, couldn't he? No. Char, then?

I look around. Char and Stefan are nowhere to be seen. Tim and Scott are at home. Scott’s at home. Scott doesn’t know. Scott doesn’t know what’s happened. How am I going to tell Scott what’s happened?

"She's Deaf," I stammer, "My friend. She knows First Aid, but… I'm sorry." My voice splits, and I start shaking. I can't breathe. I can't breathe, I can't—

"OK, can you sit with her and watch what she's doing, and tell me?" asks the operator.

Trembling, I bend my weak legs and kneel down on the sand, next to Etta and Gordon. "OK… I'm sat next to her. She's rolling him onto his back…"

Etta heaves Gordon's shoulder backwards, tilts his head back, and pinches his nose. "I'm doing rescue breaths, for you, Gordon," she says loudly, rubbing his tummy as she takes a deep breath. Leaning forward, she blows into his mouth, again and again and again and again and again.

"OK, rescue breaths, that's good. Five of those, please," says the operator, "And then get your friend's heart beating. Chest compressions, nice and hard, thirty at a time. Can your friend do that?"

I don't know where I'd even begin explaining that for Etta, but I don't need to.

She starts pumping Gordon's chest almost as fast as my heart is pounding, and she doesn't slow down. I never realised how strong her arms are, but the flexing of her toned muscles puts me in mind of a fairytale princess marching into a palace to save her baby. Stamp, stamp, stamp. Give me my child.

"She's doing it now," I say, watching Etta mouth numbers up to thirty.

Twenty-five. Twenty-six. Twenty-seven.

"Good. Good, and what's your friend's name, the one you're calling for?"

"Gordon Benn." I squeeze my eyes shut and try to fight off the knot in my throat. I'm hit with the vision of all the Benn family's graves in the shadow of St Andrew Corsini's steeple. And a new one, lined up alongside them. One with Gordon's name on it. His grandparents were Catholic, even if his parents aren't, even if he isn't. Bile burns my insides, and I shake my head hard as I open my eyes.

The sun shines painfully bright over the horizon. No. No. I can't let that happen. It's not going to happen.

Twenty-nine.

“Gordon Benn, OK. And his date of birth, please?”

Thirty.

“I… I don’t...” I shake my head, screwing my eyes closed in the hope I might find it somewhere in the back of my mind. “I don’t know, exactly… Sometime in May? May, 1999. He’s fifteen.”

“OK, and is he very cold? Feel his skin, tell me if it’s cold.”

Laying a hand gently on Gordon’s stomach, I shudder. “Lukewarm,” I tell the operator. Unnaturally cold but unpleasantly warm. Air temperature. “What does that mean?”

“You need to wrap him up in a blanket as soon as he starts breathing again,” she replies, “Warm blankets, if you can find any.”

Running footsteps crackle up the beach, and Char and Stefan skid to a halt, arms full of the old picnic rugs Char’s Dad keeps in the boathouse, has always kept in the boathouse. His boathouse.

Etta leans over Gordon and gives him two more lungfuls of air, and then sits back up, rubbing her streaming eyes. “Leave the blankets off until he’s breathing,” she says, brushing Char away, “I need to get him breathing first of all. Get back.” And then she starts pressing his chest again, beating his heart for him, down, down, down.

And then Gordon’s whole body convulses, and water bubbles out of his mouth. He rolls onto his side, away from me and Etta, and vomits, murky pink water splashing in a scream, all over the sand. It soaks away like tears into a tissue, and he throws up again, face pale and wrought with pain.

All over his back are claw marks, red and raw and some of them bleeding. They stand out like angry crossings-out, scarlet ink on porcelain paper. Broken skin on a shaking body.

He retches again and again and again, holding himself up on his elbows until his arms give way, and he collapses, forehead hitting the sand.

“He’s breathing,” I say, “He’s breathing, but he’s thrown up a lot of water...” I crawl over to Gordon and cradle his head as Stef wraps him up in the thickest blanket. Streaks of lurid crimson dribble out of his nostrils and over his lips. “...And he’s got a nosebleed.”

Gordon yanks himself free and hacks blood onto the sand, wiping his mouth on his forearm. “Who are you calling?” he whispers.

“Ambulance,” I tell him, reaching for his hand.

But he swats me away. “No ambulance.” He sits down with his legs out in front of him, and leans over, coughing. “I don’t need an ambulance. I mean it, Lena.”

Char’s hands move, and Etta’s face turns to thunder.

“Gordon, you nearly drowned!” she snaps, getting to her feet and marching over. “You still could drown. You need to go to hospital.”

Gordon shakes his head. “No ambulance,” he repeats. He reaches for my phone, but I get up and stand a few feet away. “Lena, I don’t want an ambulance!” He smears his bleeding nose on the back of his hand, and pales further. “Oh, Jesus. What the fuck happened?”

Stef, Char and I all look at each other, one of us to the other to the other. What? Do we tell him? What do we tell him? We can’t tell him nothing. Sooner or later he’s going to notice that Soph isn’t here… because she’s gone to kill Chris… and that Tim isn’t here… because he’s gone to stop Soph killing Chris… for trying to… kill Gordon. How do we even begin to explain that to him?

I let the others deal with it while I talk to the ambulance dispatcher. “He really doesn’t want to go to hospital,” I say, walking away up the beach so that nobody else will overhear.

“The ambulance is on its way,” she replies, “And whether or not he wants to go to hospital… he does need to be checked over. Can you explain that to him? I heard someone say he nearly drowned. If that’s true, then--”

“I know,” I say, nodding, “But if you knew Gordon, he’d be the most stubborn person you knew. There’s no way he’ll ever listen to me.”

“Can you put him on the line?” asks the operator.

“Yeah, of course. He’s right here.” I go back to Gordon and hand him my phone.

Gordon looks at my phone, wrinkles his nose, and coughs again as he puts it to his ear. “Hello?” The line of his mouth drops flat. “Yeah. I’m fine now. No need for an ambulance. Sorry to bother you. Bye.” He glares at me, and snaps my phone shut before handing it back. “Why did you call an ambulance? I’m fine.”

I crouch down in front of him, and shake my head. “You’re not fine, Gordon, sweetheart. Chris… Chris went after you. Jumped on you. In the water? He held you under… and Soph pulled him off you… and Etta dragged you out of the water… but you weren’t breathing.” My eyes sting, and my voice cracks against the lump in my throat. “You were cold, Gordon. I thought you were...” I shake my head again. “Etta gave you CPR. Do you understand… what that means?”

Gordon laughs. “Yeah, yeah. Pull the other one.” He splutters out more water and blood, the two mixing together in a wine-like drool. “Don’t be fucking silly. Tell me what actually happened. What, did I fall? Hit my head, swimming?”

Stef puts an arm around Gordon’s shoulder. “She’s telling the truth, Gordon. Chris flew off the handle. He...” He squeezes his eyes shut. “I think he tried to kill you.”

“No.” Gordon’s eyes pinken, and he smacks Stef in the chest with a bloody hand. “Tell me the fucking truth.” He raises his voice, and the sound of it… the sound of it… is like a scream stretched over a blade. “The fucking truth, now!”

Etta wipes her eyes, and signs something to Gordon that I don’t understand. “It’s true,” she whispers at the end, tears dripping down her cheeks. “I saw it happen. We all did. Think about it, Gordon. Why would anyone lie about something like this?”

His head bowed, Gordon pulls his knees up to his chest and wraps his arms around them. He shakes his head. “I don’t want to think it. Don’t make me think it. Tell me you’re making it up. Someone, anyone, just say you’re fibbing. Don’t make me fucking beg.”

“I’m so sorry, Gordon,” Char says, stroking my sodden hair, “It’s the truth, darling. I’m sorry.”

I turn my phone over and over in my hand, wondering if I should call 999 again, or if I’ll get yelled at for tying up the line. The ambulance is on its way, after all.

“Why would he do that?” Gordon starts shivering violently. I don’t think it’s anything to do with the cold. He curls into the crook of Char’s arm, whimpering. Almost like a baby. “I don’t… I don’t… Why?”

Nobody answers. We all know the answer. Even Gordon knows the answer. Obviously he knows the answer. He just doesn’t want to believe it, any more than he wants to believe Chris attacked him at all. But just because he doesn’t want to believe it, it doesn’t magically stop it being true.

There are all kinds of things I would rather not believe. But I have to. Because God says so. And God--as Sophie keeps insisting--doesn’t make mistakes. That’s Humans.

Gordon nods. “It’s OK,” he says quietly. He leans on Char. “Darling, could you please take me home?”

“The ambulance is coming to the lake,” I say, “We’ve got to wait for it, Gordon. We’ve got to wait here. I’m really sorry.”

“Yeah, and whose fault is that?” Gordon demands, whipping his head round to glower at me. “If you hadn’t freaked out and called 999, this wouldn’t be a fucking problem.”

“You were unconscious!” I sob, whole body jittering, “What was I supposed to do? Let you die?”

“Well, I didn’t die, did I?” he snarls, “As you say! Etta did CPR! And now I’m fine!” He sighs heavily, and then chokes into the palm of his hand. “I just want to go home. Char, can you--”

Char looks at me for approval. But I don’t know what to say. I mean, it’s not like Gordon will listen to her if she agrees with me, is it?

“Look, where’s Chris right now?” Gordon says, “Does anyone know? Because I reckon he’s probably coming back to the lake any minute, to finish the fucking job. Do you really think it’s a smashing idea for me to stick around on the off-chance I’m wrong?”

I turn my eyes heavenwards and mouth a prayer for the ambulance to get here before anyone has the chance to answer. But I’m not so lucky.

“I think it’s better for you to come back to mine,” Char says, “It’s a bit further away, but Chris won’t think to look for you there. And… and I can make you some tea, and keep an eye on you until we’re sure you’ll be OK. Etta, um...” She signs what she’s said, and raises her eyebrows. “Good idea?”

Etta chews her lip. “I’m not sure it’s worse than staying here to wait for Chris. And… I mean… we’d be able to get the ambulance right up to the front door. If the worst came to the worst--”

“I told you, I don’t want to go to hospital!”

“You might not have to,” Etta tells him, rubbing his shoulder. “If the paramedics decide you’re OK, then you be able to stay here. Or at Char’s. Lena, can you stand on the bridge and flag down the ambulance when it gets here? Send them on to Char’s, let them know Gordon’s there?”

I don’t really have a choice, do I? I can’t very well say “no” to someone who nearly drowned fifteen minutes ago.

Gordon nearly drowned fifteen minutes ago. He nearly died. And I nearly let that happen. I saw Chris lunge after him, and I didn’t think to yell out-- I didn’t think… I didn’t even realise what he was doing until I saw him grab Gordon by the hair and-- and--

“Lena.” Etta prods me in the shoulder. “Can you do that? Redirect the ambulance to Char’s?”

“Uh… Yeah… Um… Sure, yeah… Sorry. Sorry.” I shake my head. I shake my whole body. “Sorry.” Reaching for my crucifix, I squeeze it between my fingers, forcing myself to breathe slowly. To breathe through the pain. Hail Mary, full of grace. The Lord is with thee.

“Thanks,” Gordon says, clapping me on the back as he staggers to his feet. His knees buckle, and he has to cling to Char and Etta as they help him up. “You’re a sweetheart, Lena.” He manages a half-smile, but it’s hard to feel any comfort from a half-smile. Especially when every crack and chap in its pallid lips is soaked in blood. “Sorry I was a dickhead about...” He blinks hard, and then suddenly his face drains.

I jump to my feet, grabbing his hands in case he faints.

He shakes his head. “I’m fine, I’m fine,” he mumbles, “Don’t worry. I’m just… a little bit dizzy. Sorry.”

“Are you sure you’ll be OK to walk to Char’s?” I ask, “My house is closer. And my keys are in my rucksack.”

“That might...” Gordon nods, and his head looks heavy, like his neck can’t hold it up. A blade of grass trying to hold up the sky. “That might be a good idea… yeah… um...” He nods again, his eyes fluttering closed. His legs sag underneath him, and he falls hard, far too hard and fast for Char or Etta to be able to catch him.

All three of them crash onto the sand, the girls panting.

I help them haul him back upright, picking up his feet. “Let’s carry him,” I say, seeing how his head lolls, how the harsh sun glares off his clammy skin, bright and agonising white. There are dark circles under his eyes, and the blood is still dripping from his nose.

Chapter 6: Mercy: Sophie
Summary:
Trigger Warning - Homophobic Hate Crime / Homophobic Assault / Attempted Murder / Drowning.
This chapter contains scenes some readers may find upsetting. Please use your discretion.
Note: None of the triggers noted happen "on-screen" in this chapter.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
I wake as my face collides with my knees, mashing my glasses against my nose and eyes so that there are prints left on the lenses when I sit up… squinting…

My eyes are swollen almost entirely shut, and my tongue looms dry against the roof of my mouth, too huge to let me swallow. The sun is unbearable, toxic in the sky. Even down here (and where is here?) it's almost blinding, and I can't… I can't work out where I am or how I got here.

I've got the worst headache. Am I hungover? I'm wearing my school uniform, still. White blouse, grey skirt… but where are my shoes? And how did I… Why would I… Why would I be hungover in my school uniform… in the middle of the woods? And which woods?

I guess there's one way to find out. Digging in my skirt pocket for my phone… my fingers close around… nothing. My phone's not here.

I mean… I think I'm in Chase Valley Woods, but… who knows? I sure don't… but I do know that wherever these woods are, and however I might have come to be here… there's no way they go on forever. There will be an end to them. There has to be.

Wincing as my feet cry out, I force myself to stand, and stagger through the undergrowth. Undergrowth which thins even as it weaken the soles of my feet, undergrowth which peters out until the ground is smooth and well-worn.

A path. A path I know. A path I follow… right back… to the lake.

Tree branches frame the beach from where I stand, shielding my eyes with my hand, squinting across the sand, to stare… to stare… and remember.

Even from the mouth of the woods, I can see the patch of red on the sand, fine earth stained with blood. Gordon’s blood. Gordon.

Gordon is… Gordon is…

I cover my face with my hands, slipping my fingers up inside the lenses of my glasses, and wail. It’s my fault. It’s all my fault. I could have stopped Chris, could have given up on getting him to apologise… If I hadn’t forced things… Gordon would be… Gordon would…

The scene replays in my head, nausea rising as I watch, helpless, Etta dragging his body out of the lake, hauling him up the sound like a wrecked boat. His limbs are loose and weak. Eyes closed. Jaw slack, face bloody as she rolls him over.

And then I run. Why do I run? Why did I run?

I’m running now, skin howling against the sand, against the path up to the bridge, against the wide tarmac of the High Street. I run and run and run, sobs bursting from my throat, echoing around me, thin wails like far-off sirens.

Sirens. Now I remember. I wanted to call the police. Of course I wanted to tell the police. How could I not tell the police? How can I not tell the police?

I reach into my pocket for my phone… and remember, too stupidly late, that it’s not there. Fingers scramble for my crucifix instead, a comforting pendant of cold gold I can press against my lips as I pray for Gordon’s soul. It’s all I can do for him at the moment. All I can do for him anymore.

I’ve failed him. My poor, dear friend, who was so patient and so gentle and so understanding. “It’s your relationship. I’m not going to tell you how it should be.” And his first question was, “Are you still together?” That sweetness… That care… And how did I repay him?

There’s only one person who might possibly consider still speaking to me now, I’m sure. One person, aside from Chris. And I won’t speak to him. What would that make me?

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I must look like a deranged string-puppet, limbs flailing like the sails of a windmill as I run into Wimbledon Crescent. My street. My home.

But I don't stop at my house, nor at Lena's next door. I can't stand to think of Lena right now. Can't stand to think of everything she means.

That could have been me. That could still be me

Not my house. Not Lena's house. Just a few doors more, and then I'm at Tim's, thumping the knocker as fast as my heart is thumping my ribs, until he answers.

He takes one look at me and wraps his arms around me, scooping me into the front hallway and stroking my hair. "Oh, Soph, what's happened? What's the matter?" He pushes the door shut behind us.

The words taste like sick in my mouth, but I force them out, shoulders convulsing as I sob, "Gordon's dead."

Tim's arms tighten around me, squeezing my bones together as if that might stop me falling apart. As if that might make any of this better. It won't. But he tries. "Soph?" he says quietly, "Please tell me I misheard that."

I shake my head against his chest, tears soaking into his shirt as I tremble. "Chris… Chris drowned him… in the lake. It all happened so fast… so fast and I couldn't… we couldn't… nobody could—"

"Lord have mercy," Tim whispers, the lump in his throat bobbing as he swallows hard. He shakes his head. "I should have been there. Soph, I'm so sorry. I should have stopped him."

An engine rumbles outside. It's a heavy sound, heavy and hollow, unfamiliar. And then it stops.

I pull away from Tim. There's something about that sound that pulls me away from him. So I turn my head to see flashes of blue fill the frosted glass of Tim's front door.

My heart explodes, and I cover my mouth to block my screams. What else has happened? Lord have mercy, what else can possibly have happened to require… to call for…

Tim cradles me as I crash to the floor, howling and scrabbling for my crucifix.

"Hey, hey, it's OK, Sophie, dolly," he says softly, "It's OK." He pulls me close, and helps me sit up. "It must be the police. For Chris."

I groan, shutting my eyes tightly as I try—and fail—to fight the tremors coursing tormenting my muscles. "They're gonna wanna question me. I saw what happened."

Images of Gordon's body on the sand scream at my eyelids, and I flinch like I've been slapped. And then I remember the empty space… and the red… the blood red… when I got back to the beach and found him—and everyone else—gone. And I remember waking up on the ground in the woods…

I sit up, eyes flicking open. Suddenly I'm not crying anymore. I can breathe again. "Tim. I need to go and talk to the police. Chris—" I sigh. "Chris needs to pay for what he did."

Tim nods. "You want to go now?" he asks, hugging me.

"Please."

He helps me up, and opens the front door for me to run out into the street.

But it's not the police. It's a huge, bright can topped with whirling blue lamps. Ambulance. No police. Just the ambulance.

Just the ambulance. Outside Lena's house.

Tim grabs my hand, trying to hold me back, but I snatch myself free and sprint down the street.

The front door is open, hanging open like a corpse's mouth. Voices inside, the paramedics' voices, their words audible but unclear. Blurry. Like I'm underwater.

Chest heaving—where's the air? I can't find the air, can't pull it in—I lurch down the hallway and grab the door frame of the lounge, leaning heavily on it as I take in the room.

He's… he's sitting on the sofa, a blanket around his shoulders, a flannel held up to his nose. His eyes are shut, his skin pallid… but two paramedics crouch in front of him, talking to him.

"I think it's best for you to come with us to hospital," the older one says, "Of course we can't make you, but you've been through a lot, and there's only so much we can do for you here at home."

Gordon shakes his head. "I don't want to go to hospital," he mumbles, "Can't explain it to my Mum."

"Oh, mate, I'm sure she'd understand," says the younger one, "You're not the first person to have an accident swimming. She'll just be relieved you came through it, you'll see."

Accident? I bite my lip. What's Gordon told them?

A hand on my shoulder. I turn around to see Tim… and Lena, coming down the stairs.

Her face breaks into a smile as she sees me, and she runs towards me, wrapping me in her arms, rubbing my shoulders. "Thank God," she whispers, stroking my hair. She presses her face into my neck, and I feel damp against my skin.

"Lena?" I pull away. "You're crying. Hey, hey, don't cry… Gordon's OK. You're OK. I'm OK. Everyone's OK." I take her hands and squeeze them.

Lena shakes her head. "You disappeared," she says, "And Chris ran after you. I thought… I thought he was gonna hurt you too."

Tim hugs us both together. "It's OK. He's not gonna hurt anyone else. We’ll find a way to make sure of it, I promise."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Half an hour later, Gordon has managed to persuade the paramedics he's OK. And physically? I think he probably is, but I'm not taking my eyes off him. And I have no clue what this has done to his head.

He sips his six-sugar tea, and leans on my shoulder. "Are you OK?"

"Of course I'm OK," I reply, rubbing his arm, "And I broke up with Chris."

Tim frowns. "So where's Etta now?"

Lena pulls her knees up to her chest. "She started getting flashing lights in front of her eyes as soon as the ambulance turned up. And not blue ones. This was a migraine aura. Char and Stef took her home so she could sleep."

"She saved my life," Gordon mumbles, blinking tears down his cheeks, "And that's the thanks she gets: half her brain shutting down from the stress." He sighs, and then coughs violently, dragging the blanket tighter around his shoulders. "This is all my fault."

"Oi!" Tim snaps, wagging his finger at Gordon, "No, it wasn't. You're not gonna go there. This was all Chris' fault, all his bad decisions, and you're not gonna blame yourself. Say it with me. This is Chris' fault, and he's gonna pay."

Gordon cradles his teacup close to his chest, and bows his head over it, breathing in the steam. He doesn't speak.

"Say it, Gordon," I urge him, wrapping my arm around his shoulders and pulling him close.

"This is Chris' fault," Gordon says quietly. And then he looks up, slurping at his tea as his eyes take on a new gleam. "And he's gonna pay."

"He is," I say, "I promise, we'll make him pay."

Lena reaches across the gap between her sofa and ours, and passes Gordon her phone. "Call the police," she says, "Tell them what Chris did to you. He's not gonna get away with it."

Gordon smiles, and shakes his head. "There's no need to drag the police into this," he says, pushing Lena's phone gently away, "We can deal with this ourselves."

Chapter 7: Wrath: Scott
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Assault / Discussion of Homophobia / Discussion of Hate Crime / Discussion of Attempted Murder / Discussion of Drowning.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
The clatter of pebbles against my window shakes me out of sleep, and I kick the covers off, padding over to the window and pushing the sash up.

Squinting into the dim of the lamplit street, my eyes find Lena, standing shivering in a pool of golden light. She gives me a half-hearted smile, and a half-hearted wave. "Did I wake you?" Her voice is soft in the summer air, and my heartbeat quickens.

I shake my head, and lean on the window-ledge. "Of course not. But it's… it's the middle of the night. What are you doing here?"

"I can't sleep," she says, tears sparkling in her eyes, so bright I can see them from here, "Something… Something happened… and I don't know what to do. Can I—"

"Yes, of course you can," I say, not even waiting for her to finish the sentence. She doesn't need to. "Just wait two seconds."

I leave the window open, curtain drifting like a breath in the breeze, and run down the stairs on tiptoe, easing the front door open and pulling Lena into my arms.

"Tell me what's happened, love," I whisper, half expecting her to say she's had a nightmare. But she's never thrown pebbles at my window in the middle of the night before, and she has nightmares all the time, of course she does. Stretching out my leg, I push the door shut behind us with my foot, and walk Lena upstairs.

Once we're in my room, we sit on my bed, and Lena curls into me as I wrap my arms around her, resting my chin on top of her head.

Her hair's damp.

"Chris tried to kill Gordon," she whispers, "At the lake today. And he nearly did it. Etta had to give him CPR… and I had to call an ambulance."

I think my heart stops. "Lena?!" I squeak, vision darkening at the edges even in my shadowy room.

She hugs me tightly. "Gordon's OK," she says, "He's OK. He's just shaken up. And angry. But we're all angry."

"Lena, I can't breathe," I whisper, "I can't— I can't—" I keep trying to replay her words, "Gordon's OK," but all I can hear in my mind is "Chris tried to kill Gordon", and all I can see are Gordon's eyes, half-closed and unseeing, and all I can do is pull Lena so close I think she might snap, or my arms might.

But she just holds me and strokes my back, shushing me as whimpers shudder from my mouth. She doesn't say anything.

"Where's Chris now?" I croak, "Is he— Has anyone—"

Lena shakes her head. "I don't know, Scott. I don't know how we're gonna do school tomorrow."

"You mean we'll have to see him there?" My fingers turn to claws and I cling to the soft fabric of Lena's hoodie. "Lena, you can't go! You can't, you can't… I can't stand the thought of him hurting you as well. You'll stay home, won't you? Please say you'll stay home."

She pulls away, and rests her forehead against mine. "He's never gonna find out about me," she says, "Or you. Don't worry."

"But what if he does?" A sob escapes my chest like a painful hiccup. "If he'll hurt Gordon, he'll hurt us too; you know he will. Please don't risk it. Please don't go in tomorrow."

"Hey, look, listen," she says, "I'm not going to let him frighten me, OK? And nor should you. We're going into school tomorrow, and we're pretending everything's fine. It's the only way we can stay safe. You know it is." She hugs me. "You know it is," she repeats, rocking me gently from side to side.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When the morning sun wakes us, Lena stirs against my shoulder and hugs my waist.

"I should go," she murmurs, "Before people start waking up."

Bleary-eyed, I squint at my phone to see the time. It's only just gone five. "There's time to sleep in a little longer," I say, squeezing her and nuzzling the top of her head.

She pulls away. "Sorry," she whispers, "But I've really got to go. There's only so much we need people to think." As she rolls off me, her crucifix dances against her neck, and she presses it still with her hand. "Thank you," she says with a smile, perching on the edge of my bed for a moment before standing up and stretching. "Really. Thank you so much. I'll see you at the bus stop, yeah?"

I nod, and reach for her hand. "Or you could stay?"

Lena shakes her head and straightens her hoodie. "Scott… We both know I can't." She tiptoes across my bedroom to the door, smiles at me one last time, and then she's gone.

I hear soft creaks on the stairs, and the faint bump of the front door closing behind her.

For a long time, I lie awake, staring at the ceiling, missing her weight on my chest.

And then I blink.

And then I'm being shouted awake by the disgusting alarm on my phone.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Chris is nowhere to be seen at the bus stop.

Char, Stef and Tim are already on the bench when I arrive, all sitting close together like zebra finches on a branch. Etta's nowhere to be seen.

As I stride up to the bench and sit down next to them, I find myself having to undo the top button of my shirt just to feel like I'm not being strangled, but my heart is still hell bent on hammering its way out of my chest, and I want nothing more than to be sick, just to quell the nausea twisting my brain.

I press the back of my hand over my mouth, and shut my eyes. Maybe skipping breakfast wasn't the best idea in the world. But I'm not convinced eating breakfast would've made me feel better either, much as Mum might have urged me to "have a bit of toast, at least, sweetie."

Between Lena and Gordon there's such a rock hard lump in my throat that I can barely swallow air, let alone food. I take my bottle from my bag and force myself to have a sip of water. Can't stand a headache on top of everything else.

Char nudges me. "You OK, pal?"

I shake my head. "Lena told me what happened. To Gordon. I'm trying not to freak out but it turns out that's not my strong point."

She hugs me. "Gordon's a strong boy," she says, "And I think he's got a plan, him and Soph."

As if on cue, Gordon saunters up to the bench and sits down at Char's feet. "Morning, all," he says, grinning cheesily and hugging his rucksack to his chest as he leans back against Char's shins. "How are we on this exceedingly fine day?"

I don't know what to say. This… This isn't the Gordon I expected to see today. For a moment last night this wasn't the Gordon I ever expected to see again. When I think of what could've happened, that sick feeling resurges in my throat, and I cringe against my palm. I can’t help myself.

I fling my arm around Gordon’s shoulder and pull him into my side. “I’m so sorry,” I whisper into his soft brown hair, “I should’ve been there to protect you. I’m so sorry.”

Gordon startles, squeaks, and then… and then he slips his arms around my waist and hugs me right back. “It’s OK,” he says, “It’s not your fault. And I’m all right. And I’m gonna keep on being all right, ‘cause Chris is gonna get what’s coming to him.”

“You’re going to the police after all?” I rub his arm. “Hey, that’s great. That’s great.”

With a snort of laughter, Gordon shakes his head. “Of course not, Scotty! Like I’d trust the police!” He tries his best to muffle his giggles with my shoulder, but I can feel his whole body shaking against me. (Yes. I might well die about it.) “No, no, of course not. No. I’m gonna deal with this my own way. Well. Me and Soph are. Our own way. Wait ‘til she gets here, and we’ll go through it with you. We’ve got plans. Really big plans.”

“Um… Gordy?” I pull away from him and study his face. “What do you mean “plans”?”

Gordon taps the tip of his index finger against his nose. “Ah! Wait ‘til Soph gets here.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Soph got to the bus stop with about ten seconds to spare. She barely even got to her seat before the bus pulled away. “Wait ‘til Soph gets here” turned out to mean “Wait ‘til we get to school”, because Chris had the fucking audacity to show his murderous fucking face after… after what he did… and neither Soph nor Gordy wanted to risk him overhearing.

So we hole up in the space under the stairs to the Year 10 and 11 form-rooms. Me, Gordy, Soph, and Lena. Tim, Char and Stef. All of us. Minus Etta.

Gordon pulls out his notebook. “OK, so,” he says, flipping back the black leather cover and picking his way to a white page filled with black ink scrawls, two rows of text to the line, “cramped” barely covering it. “I’ve been thinking about what we talked about yesterday, Soph, and I reckon it’s best if we do it as soon as possible, so that he’ll think you only broke up with him on impulse.” He grins. “So that he’ll fall for it.”

Sophie nods, and leans forward to squint at Gordon’s spidery writing. “Oh, yeah, yeah. I mean… I’m free tomorrow evening if you are. And if he is. D’you reckon Char will mind?”

I’m missing something, aren’t I? I frown, and touch my fingers against the notebook so Gordon looks at me. “Why would Char mind?”

“Oh, ‘cause it’s one of her boats that we’d be using,” Gordon replies, as if that explains anything, “Or, rather, one of her Dad’s boats. But I don’t see why he’d find out. It’s not like she ever talks to him. And it’s not like he’s ever minded us taking the boats out before.” He grins, and then turns back to Sophie. “Trust me, Soph. It’ll be fine.”

“What have the boats got to do with anything?” I crane my neck to read Gordon’s handwriting, but he passes the notebook to me before I can decipher a single word.

“See for yourself,” he replies, leaning against the wall, arms folded loosely over his chest. “Let me know if you have trouble reading anything. I know my writing’s shit.”

“Your writing’s fine,” I say, which isn’t the truth, but honestly, Gordon needs a break right now. And his writing is legible. Mostly.

And then my eyes find “lure” and my eyes find “ambush” and my eyes find “trap” and my eyes find “drown”, and suddenly I really wish I was having trouble reading.

I get my wish. Thank God for tears, right?

“Gordon, what the fuck?” I whisper, staring at him and shaking my head. “Seriously, what the fuck are you thinking?”

Gordon chuckles, and takes his notebook back. “I know, it’s great, isn’t it?” Then he looks at me. “Wait. Are you OK?”

“No, I’m not fucking OK!” I exclaim, my voice breaking, “Of course I’m not fucking OK! You’re talking about… You’re talking about--” There’s that nausea again, and it takes pressing my hand over my mouth with all my strength to choke it down. I lower my voice back to that whisper, but I can barely control it. I can barely breathe. “You’re talking about killing someone.”

“What the fuck?” Lena exclaims, tearing the notebook out of Gordon’s hands. She reads. She widens her eyes. She shakes her head and hands it right back, glaring at him. “Absolutely not. I’m not condoning this. Not ever.”

“Nor am I,” Tim says, “And nor should anyone.”

“So it’s OK for Chris to try and kill me, but not for me to do the same to him?” Gordon demands, snapping his notebook shut and pulling the elastic closure into place. “Great. Thank you all for your support. Soph, are you gonna back out, too?”

“No,” Soph replies, “Of course I’m not. And nobody’s saying it’s OK for Chris to hurt you. But… I mean, don’t get me wrong. I’m all for beating the shit out of him. But do you really want to stoop to his level? Be like him? Be just as bad?” Her eyes swim, and her eyeliner starts to run.

Gordon sighs ostentatiously, and rolls his eyes. “How is killing someone who wants you dead “just as bad” as killing someone for being gay? I’m fairly sure it’s just self-defence if I go after Chris. Him going after me? That was a hate crime.”

“So go to the police,” Tim says, “Report what he did, and press charges against him.”

“You’re a Pacifist,” Gordon replies, “You of all people should know that the police are a bunch of violent fucking fascists.”

“Oh here we go,” Char mutters.

Gordon gives her the finger. “I can’t rely on the police, so I’m gonna deal with this myself, OK? And Soph’s gonna help me. Who else?” He looks around at everyone. And his eyes turn to me. “Scott? Now you know why I’ve got to do this?”

I shake my head. “No,” I say, “There’s got to be another way.”

“Oh, yeah? And what do you suggest?” His eyes are hard. Furious. I’m screwing this up for him, I’m getting in the way, I’m stopping him from healing… But that’s the last thing I want to do, the last thing I would ever want to do. Why can’t he see that?

“There’s got to be some way of getting your own back without killing him,” I whisper, “I mean, ideally there’s a way without being violent at all, but--”

Gordon claps, and nods. “Oh, my God, yes, no, that’s perfect! Oh, Scotty, you’re a genius!” He beams, grabs a pen from the pocket of his blazer, and scribbles. “Yeah!” His head’s bent over his notebook, and he’s spilling some idea--some idea that I’ve given him, apparently, though I can’t think what--onto the next fresh page. “Got it!” he says triumphantly, bashing a full stop down at the end of a sentence, several expectant minutes later. “OK, tell me what you think.” He passes his notebook back to me.

I read, and my heart starts crying. I sigh. “Gordon, please. This… This isn’t better.”

“You said to find a way of getting my own back without killing Chris!” Gordon retorts, “That’s what you said, and this is the way! What’s the matter now?”

I hold up the notebook, and point to the word “waterboard”. “This is the problem, Gordy! You’re still proposing to torture him. When I said not to kill him, I didn’t mean make him think you’re gonna kill him. That’s what this would do! Do you get that?” I’m trying to keep my voice as low and as quiet as possible, but honestly it’s all I can do not to be sick at the moment, so… I’m not sure I’d say it’s working.

"It's still not as bad as what he did to Gordon," Sophie says, "And if it scares him out of doing anything like that again… it might not be the worst thing in the world. It's not like we're talking about going after an innocent person here. This is someone who…" She swallows hard. "Someone who tried to kill Gordon for being gay. What's to say he won't try again? Last time I saw him—before this morning, I mean—he thought he'd done it. And he was proud of himself, Scott. Did anyone see his face this morning? When he realised Gordon was still alive? Because that didn't look like relief."

I pull my knees up to my chest and hug them tightly. "It'll change you if you do this," I say, "Both of you. Gordy… Soph… You won't come out of this the same people."

Gordon shrugs. "As far as I'm concerned, I'm not the same person anymore anyway. That version of Gordon died at the lake. This version—" He gestures to himself. "—Hasn't slept since, and won't be able to sleep until he's sure Chris is dealt with."

Lena nods. "You're not the only one," she mumbles, "Chris might go after someone else next." She looks at her feet, and starts picking her fingertips with her thumbnails.

"I know," Gordon says, "Which is all the more reason to fuck his shit up, OK? So we're agreed, then. Even if some of us don't like the idea of violence—" He looks at me, and folds his arms. "—Sometimes it is the answer. Especially when it's also the question."

I want to say something about the rule of beasts, but I bite my tongue. I'd probably only get the quote wrong anyway. I'm not entirely sure I know what it actually is.

"It's never the answer!" Tim exclaims, "Turn the other cheek, Gordon. When someone slaps you in the face, turn the other cheek. Make them question if they really want to do it again."

"Oh, right, of course I can rely on you to drag Jesus into this." Gordon groans aloud, gets to his feet, and stomps off, muttering, "Fucking Catholics."

Tim sets his jaw, and his eyes turn pink, but he doesn't say anything, just breathes slowly in and out until Gordon turns a corner at the end of the corridor.

"I'll talk to him," I say, hugging Tim. "Try not to take it personally, won't you? He's just lashing out 'cause he's shaken up."

"Astonishingly, that doesn't help a lot," Tim mumbles, wiping his eyes on his cuff.

"I know." I clap him on the back, shut Gordon's notebook, and hurry off with it tucked under my arm.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

"The least you could have done is backed me up," Gordon snaps, when I finally track him down in the library, "I'd have expected the others to try and stop me getting justice, but not you." He laughs harshly, head bent over a book. "Guess I was wrong to trust you just like I was wrong to trust Chris."

"Stop it right now," I say, sitting down in the armchair next to his, "I'm just trying to protect you from yourself. You're rushing into this. You're not thinking clearly. And it's going to do a lot more damage than you realise."

Gordon rolls his eyes, and snatches his notebook back. "I wouldn't expect you to understand," he mutters, "It's not as if you're in any danger. Chris hasn't got a problem with you."

"You do realise that, statically-speaking, there's no way you're the only LGBT kid in our class, right?" I say, "And if your plan doesn't work, and you just piss Chris off, he's not going to magically stop being a homophobe?"

"There's only one way to stop someone being a homophobe," Gordon mutters.

Yikes. "You know that's not true. What I'm saying is that, if you piss him off now, when he already hates LGBT people… it'll make him worse. You saw how quickly he changed when you came out. Suddenly you weren't his friend anymore. You were just gay."

"Yeah, I know!" Gordon snaps, "And he tried to kill me for it, and there's no way I'll ever be able to get justice for it the normal way, so just let me have this, won't you? It's the only way I'm ever gonna stand a chance of feeling OK ever again."

"It won't work like that," I say, "How many times are you gonna make me say it? This won't fix anything. It'll just make matters worse. And it'll put other people in danger as well."

He stands up, legs of the armchair scraping against the cheap carpet as he shoves it back. "You don't know what you're talking about."

Oh, for God's sake. I'm not taking this, even from Gordon. Even now. "I know a lot more than you realise." I fold my arms and rub my thumbs against my biceps, trying to keep breathing slowly. These arms held Lena last night, a terrified Lena, as she held a terrified me. I know so much more than Gordon realises.

"Sure you do," Gordon says. He moves to match out of the library, but I catch his arm, and he spins around on his heel, eyes burning. "What?!" he yells, "What can you possibly say to me?!" He chokes out a laugh. "Oh, wait, don't tell me. You're scared he'll go after you because you're an ally. Oh, wow, yeah, I can only imagine your anguish. Such a tortured soul!"

"I'm not an ally," I say, letting go of his arm.

"Oh, right, well," says Gordon, voice suddenly quiet and cold, "You can fuck off to Chris, then."

"No, that's not what I mean." I pick at the sleeve of my shirt. I can't look at him. I can barely say the words out loud right now. But I have no choice. I can't stand to lose him.

"OK, so what do you mean?"

I sigh, and pinch the bridge of my nose. "I'm bi."

Chapter 8: Trust: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Panic Attack / PTSD.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
I take a step backwards, shaking my head. "You're just saying that to try and get me to trust you." I want to be sick. I want to hit him before he has a chance to hit me. My hands itch to slap him, and I never thought I'd feel that way about Scott.

Scott's mouth drops open. "I'm not! Gordon, it's the truth!"

But I'm striding away, slamming the library door behind me and then running off down the corridor.

That's a cruel trick to play and I'm not falling for it, not even if it gives me the chance to wonder if… maybe…

I stumble to a halt and press my back against the exposed-brick wall outside the Year 8 form room. The clay is cold and rough against my fingertips, and I squeeze my eyes shut, flinching as I gulp air past the agonising lump in my throat. It feels like I've swallowed a tumblestone, and I can barely breathe.

I take off my glasses and tuck them into the breast pocket of my blazer, pressing the heels of my hands against my eyes as I purse my lips and try to get my lungs to calm down. But the corridor spins violently around me, and, before I know what’s happening, I’m crashing against the ugly lino, pressing my lips together to try and quell the nausea. Too hot. Too cold. Both at once.

Running footsteps approach. My notebook tumbles to the floor with a smack, and grey trouser-legs crease in front of me, an unknown figure crouching until Scott’s face comes into view.

“Gordy, oh, my God, are you OK?” He wraps his arms around me and hauls me upright, holding me against his chest.

I’m too weak to fight him off, and my heart starts racing as I flail ineffectually against his embrace. I mumble words that aren’t words, and try to wriggle free.

“Hey, Gordy, it’s OK, it’s just me. It’s Scotty,” he says softly, stroking my hair. “Look, I’ll let go of you if you want, but I’m worried about you. I saw you fall. Are you OK?”

He’s worried about me. He’s holding me. He’s holding the one kid in his class that he knows is gay… holding me close, not caring that I’m obviously gonna take this opportunity to touch him up. Obviously. But he’s holding me, rubbing my back and rocking me gently from side to side, like he cares. And there’s saying he’s bi and pretending to stay friends with me to get me to trust him until he yanks it all out from under me… and there’s running to find me after I yell at him, and then holding me and hugging me and worrying about me when he sees me collapse.

Scott and I were in the same group for our last Drama assessment in Year 9. Much as I love him, he’s not that good an actor. But he is that good a friend.

And I do love him.

So I let myself cry against his shoulder, and I stop fighting his arms around me. I just bury my face in the cheap synthetic fabric of his blazer, and cling to him like a koala until the bell erupts for morning registration.

Scott pulls away and rests his forehead against mine. “Are you gonna be OK for class? I’m sure Mr Mayes will understand if I say you’re not well.”

I shake my head. “Don’t tell Mr Mayes anything about this,” I say, pulling away. “He’s not to know a thing. I’m serious. Don’t tell him, and don’t tell any of the other teachers, either. Not a word.”

“About any of this?” Scott whispers, “Not even about… what Chris did?”

There’s that explosion again, like I’m throwing my head back and bashing it against the bricks. A bright flash of white in front of my eyes, and then… and then--

“Gordon?” Scott says, “You’re shaking. Gordon?” He squeezes my shoulder, and I stare at his hand.

“I’m fine,” I say, “And, no. I’m not gonna tell school anything. They don’t need to know. I just want to get on with… getting back at Chris. And then I want to get on with my life.”

Scott chews his lip, but he nods. “OK,” he says, picking up my notebook and hugging it to his chest. “If you’re sure. Come with me to the loos quickly, so you can splash some cold water on your face before form-time.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

“All right, Gordon?” Chris says, nodding at me and smirking as Scott and I walk through the form-room door, “What brings you here?” He snorts with laughter.

“Ignore him,” Scott says, dragging me over to my seat by the sleeve of my blazer, “Come and sit with us. We’ll look after you.” He pulls out a chair at the table he shares with Lena and Stef, and smiles at me encouragingly.

Stef passes me my rucksack. “You, uh, left this in the corridor earlier,” he says. He glances across the classroom, and then lowers his voice. “OK, so what you were saying about...” He nods at my notebook. “Soph thinks it’s a decent idea. The second one, not the… Full Monty.”

I stifle a laugh against the heel of my hand. “I mean, I’m sure that would be almost as scary, if I took off all my--”

Stef raises his eyebrows, and purses his lips. “Are you gonna be serious about this?”

“Mm-hmm,” I say, pressing my right hand against the notebook and holding my left in the air. “I do solemnly swear… not to be sarky. And I know this sounds really sarky, but… I mean… You know what this notebook means to me.”

“OK.” Stef nods. “So. Soph says it could work, and Char says we can use the… venue. When… When do you think it would be… a good time?”

Lena glares at him, and then at me. “It’s never gonna be a good time, guys,” she hisses, “This is such a fucked-up plan.”

“This is such a fucked-up situation,” I reply, shrugging, “I think a fucked-up plan complements it rather well, don’t you?” I click my fingers. “Oh, no, wait. Of course you don’t. You’re a Pacifist, or whatever.”

“Well, not quite,” Lena replies, fiddling with the end of her plait, “Sometimes you have to make hard choices, you know? Sometimes there’s no other option--”

I beam. “Ah, now you’re getting it!” I turn to Stef. “I’m not doing anything this evening,” I say, “I think if we leave it too long, the whole idea of “fixing what went wrong” will, uh… you know. Not work. It’s got to happen pretty soon, or--”

The door of the form-room clunks open, and Mr Mayes walks in, ring-binder in hand. “Good morning, Year Ten!” he says, taking off his jacket and hanging it over the back of his chair as the classroom falls silent, “I hope you’re all looking forward to today’s lessons. We’re starting a new unit of Physics!”

I lean forward and bump my forehead against the table in front of me until Scott grabs my collar and pulls me upright. “Just let me die,” I groan.

“Gordon, have you got something to share with the class?” Mr Mayes says, sitting down and resting his elbows on his desk.

“No, Sir,” I mumble, fiddling with the elastic closure on my notebook, “Sorry, Sir.”

“Well, then, please try to stay alive long enough for me to take the register, won’t you? And then we’ll see if you can survive Physics.”

Chapter 9: Soul: Sophie
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Assault / Drowning / Attempted Murder / Homophobia / Discussion of Hate Crime

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
“Are you sure you want to do this?” Lena asks, pulling my hair into a French braid as I file my nails. She meets my eyes in the mirror in front of us--her bedroom mirror--and furrows her brow. “You won’t be able to take it back if you regret it.”

I nod. “I know.” I cast my eyes to my knees, studying the black twill weave of my skinny jeans. “Believe me, I know. But of all things I might regret… wish I could take back…” I don’t finish my sentence, and she doesn’t ask me to. Just as well, really; I couldn’t tell her if she did. Telling Father Matthew was far more than hard enough.

"OK," Lena says, chewing her lip as she fastens the end of the braid. She leans over me and hugs me tightly, resting her chin on top of my head. Her eyes close. "I'm sorry," she mumbles.

"Hey, what are you sorry for?" I squeeze her arms, looking up at her in the mirror.

Lena sighs. "I'm sorry all this is happening… and that you're going through it all while dealing with a breakup…" Tears roll down her cheeks. "And you thought Gordon had died… Tim told me everything. And I'm really sorry."

"It's not your fault. I promise it isn't." I sigh, and make myself give her a half-smile. "Are you OK?"

"I mean, I'm not happy, but…" She shrugs. "That's 'cause of this evening. I really… I really wish you weren't doing this."

I swallow down the lump in my throat, and squeeze my eyes shut. "I don't know how else to fix it if Gordon won't go to the police. I looked it up. You can't press charges against for assault if you aren't the person they assaulted… which makes sense… but doesn't help us with Chris." Staring at the carved wooden frame of the mirror, I bite my fingernails.

"Will this?" Lena whispers, kneeling down on the floor next to me. "I'm scared of what it'll do to you, Soph. You loved Chris last week. And I get that he ruined everything, but… isn't there some part of you that… might still care about him? That might… I don't know… shy away from hurting him as much as the rest of you wants to? As much as Gordon wants to?"

She reaches for my hand and threads her fingers through mine, and I really hope she can't feel how fast my heart's beating suddenly. I pinch my crucifix with my free hand, and nod. "But maybe it'll stop me going too far. I've got to hope so, right?"

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I lean against the archway of the boathouse and stare out across the lake. The water is dark and still in the low evening light, and its musty, weedy smell rises in the air, creeping damp hanging in the lack of breeze. But it’s cold, almost as cold as the winter, and I curl in on myself, gripping my arms to conserve heat.

Gordon is curled up in a ball in the stern of the larger rowing dinghy, hidden under one of the tartan rugs I saw wrapped around his shoulders yesterday, when he was at Lena’s, with the paramedics. Getting him into the stern was one thing. Getting the blanket to cover him was quite another, and, personally, I’m not sure it’s going to do the job Gordon wants it to. What I am fairly sure of is that Chris will notice there’s a fifteen-year old boy--even a short, skinny one like Gordon--pretending not to be on a boat. There’s just something… hmm… noticeable about that kind of thing.

I guess I’ll just have to hide him with my legs or something. Or make sure Chris doesn’t look down.

Chewing on the cuff of my jacket, I try not to think about how Lena is here, watching me watch the lake, knowing what I'm about to do out on that water.

Instead I try to block her out of the corner of my eye, and think about why I'm about to do this. About what Chris did to Gordon on this very same lake.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

About this afternoon, when I arranged this. End of lunch. The school field. By the trees.

How he grinned in that same cheeky way I used to think was so cute, in that way he always used to grin when Gordon made a shitty pun or started clowning around. Before… before…

"What's up?" he asked, leaning against the trunk of a birch tree.

"I wanted to apologise," I said, "For… For overreacting yesterday. At the lake? I was being stupid. And breaking up with you was…" (The only sensible thing to do? The only right thing to do? The only safe thing to do?) I tried not to choke on the words I was speaking. "...even stupider. And I'd like to… take it back?"

Chris' eyes lit up. "Really?"

That sparkle. The sparkle I'd last seen in his eyes when I finally agreed to let him plan my birthday party. I'd insisted I hadn't wanted one, but… honestly… I just didn't want my parents to hire out the village hall again. It smells like plimsolls.

For a moment, it was that Chris I saw in front of me, and my stomach cringed as I remembered Lena's words. "Some part of you that might still care about him." That stupid, weak part of me that could forget what he did yesterday for even a single moment. I shoved it down and stamped on it, clenching my fist behind my back where Chris wouldn't see.

"Of course, really," I said, "And I want to make it up to you, too. So I was thinking… it might be nice if we… went on a little date together? To try and get back into… how things used to be… before… Before." I let my fist go, and reach for his hand. "This evening, maybe? We could, I don't know… maybe take a boat out? Char says it's OK."

Chris beamed. "I'd love to," he said, squeezing my hand and leaning forward to press a kiss against my lips.

But I turn my head away at the last second, and it lands on my cheek instead, closer to my ear than my mouth. There's a bad taste on my tongue, acrid like vinegar. "Sorry," I mumbled, "I'm just not quite ready for kissing yet. Sorry."

Chris stepped back. "It's OK. I get it." He nodded, and squeezed my hand. "I shouldn't have left you alone in the woods yesterday. That was fucked up."

That was fucked up? That part?!

I took a few deep, slow breaths, and nodded. "Yeah… but I'm willing to put it aside, so that we can move on… if you want."

"Of course I want," Chris whispered.

I smiled. Well, at least Gordon would smile when I told him. "OK, so I'll see you this evening, then? Half-eight, at the boathouse?"

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

There’s a crunch-crunch-crunch as Chris’ footsteps track up the path to the boat-house.

Lena hugs me. “I think that’s my cue to go,” she whispers, squeezing my hands as she pulls away. “You can come to mine afterwards, if you want. If you need to talk. Or anything.”

“Thanks,” I whisper, my voice cracking. But I won’t let myself cry, not even as she leaves, not even as she walks away, the light blue chiffon of her dress fluttering as she goes.

I hear her exchange “Hello” with Chris, and then he’s in the boathouse, walking towards me, closer and closer on the boards until he’s really, definitely there, taking my hands and smiling.

“Can I hold you?” he asks, opening his arms.

I remember his hugs and how close he always used to hold me, how soothing his heartbeat was against my cheek. And then I remember him standing in front of me in the woods, yesterday, when he left me passed-out by that tree. Him standing like this, trying to kiss me at lunchtime, and how I shied away… and why… and why I am here now. Doing this.

And so I step forward and let him wrap his arms around me, and I hold him, too, and I pretend that he’s someone else. And I shut my eyes and try not to look at the door of the boathouse, or to think of blue chiffon, or of deft fingers weaving intricate braids into my hair.

“I was so scared you’d hate me,” Chris mumbles in my ear, “After I was such an idiot.”

I shake my head. “You don’t need to be scared,” I say, pulling away gently. “Come on, let’s take the boat out.”

Chris grins, and clambers down into the dinghy, crouching low over the seat in the middle. “Do you wanna row, or shall I?”

“If you’re OK to row out… I can row us back, when we’re ready to come in again,” I say, stepping towards the edge of the flooring.

Holding out his hands to help me climb down, Chris nods. “That works for me.”

He pulls us out to the middle of the lake, and then hauls the oars in to rest in the hull. Reaching for my hands, he smiles. “I’m so glad you asked me here,” he says, “I know it’s only been a day… but I’ve really missed you… like, the knowing you loved me? I’ve missed that. And it’s my fault that it’s been...” He sighs. “...That that hasn’t been the case, well… in the last few days.” He looks at his feet for a moment--and I thank God that it’s only a moment--and then squeezes my hands as he looks back up. “I’m sorry. I was an idiot.”

“Yeah.” I loose my hands from Chris’, and sit on them, shoulders hunched. That’s all I say. That’s all I’m going to say until he speaks again. Because he has been an idiot. And maybe if he’s ready to accept that… he’s ready to change. And to stop being an idiot. And to make things right with Gordon.

“Yeah...” Chris mumbles. “I was. And I should’ve been better for you. Tried harder.”

Uh… What? Tried harder with what? Tried harder with his apology the first time? Tried harder with his self-control yesterday, when he went after Gordon? Or just… tried harder to overcome his homophobia, and just… accept Gordon when he came out?

I shuffle back on my seat, calves bumping against Gordon’s blanket. The fibres scratch and catch against the fabric of my jeans. “What do you mean?”

“Well, I should’ve done it properly,” Chris says, “Finished the job. And I didn’t. I ran off after you, and… well… you saw Gordon at school today.” He tuts. “You deserve better. You deserve a boyfriend who does things properly. No half-measures. So I’m sorry.”

What? What?! My throat starts closing up, muscles tightening into a painful knot. I want to turn back the last minute, do it over again, and make sure he doesn’t say that this time. Or even think it. But I can’t even decide what I should say to him. I couldn’t speak if I tried.

But it doesn’t matter.

Tearing himself free of the blanket, Gordon bursts out from between my legs, and scrambles up the boat, lunging at Chris. “You fucking what, mate?” he snarls, grabbing the collar of Chris’ shirt, “You want to finish the job? Finish the fucking job! Now’s your chance!” He’s screaming in Chris’ face. “Go on! Do it properly! Kill me! Kill me, you fuck!”

I cling to the boat, fingertips burning against the rough wood of the stern seat.

And then Chris spits in Gordon’s face, and grabs him by the neck, and squeezes, and Gordon feebly lets go of him, and, oh, God, oh, God, no, no, no, I can’t let this happen, I won’t let this happen, not now, not again, not this time, not when I have every chance to stop it, not when I’m the only one who can.

I leap forward and bend Chris’ fingers back until he howls, and his hands drop from Gordon’s neck.

Gordon shoves him.

He tumbles backwards into the bow. He cracks his head hard against the keel. The sound is like a gunshot. His eyes are wide, his mouth is open, and he lies there, completely still, but staring, staring, staring at the sky, not breathing. Not breathing.

A whimper escapes my throat, and I press my hands over my mouth, tears spilling over faster than I can even feel them form. I crash back down onto the stern seat, and hide my face with my hands, whispering the Lord’s Prayer into my palms.

For a long moment, a long moment that is silent and raw around the edges, Gordon kneels in the hull, staring at Chris’ body. I can’t see Gordon’s face. I can’t see Gordon’s face. He’s panting loudly, ragged breaths hacking out of his body, until his legs give way and he collapses onto his haunches.

Chris’ soul. He… He hasn’t been to Confession since… since he attacked Gordon… It was only yesterday. How could he have been? And nothing of the Last Rites. He just… He’s just gone… and without atoning for anything. He’s… His soul is… He’s going to--

I push Gordon to starboard, and crawl over the hull, legs weak and sluggish underneath me, until I can kneel beside Chris, and trace a cross over his chest as I sob.

I can’t let this happen. I did love him. I think maybe I still do… much as I know I shouldn’t--I really, really shouldn’t--but there has to be something I can do. Pray for him? Will God hear me if I pray for someone whose last act was to try to kill his friend?

I have to try. What will I tell his parents if I don’t at least try? That their son is… It’s my fault he’s dead. I can’t let it be my fault if he’s damned as well.

“Go forth, Christian soul, from this world…” I squeeze Chris’ hand with one of mine, and, with the other, clasp my crucifix. But the words get lost, falling away in front of me, just like my tears.

A hand grabs the yoke of my shirt, pulling me backwards. “What the fuck are you doing?” Gordon hisses.

I swat him away. “Leave me alone,” I wail, leaning over Chris and clinging to his limp hand. “Let me at least give him a good death. Let me at least--” I squeeze Chris’ hand one more time, and then fold both his hands over his chest, tracing a cross on his forehead with my thumb.

“A good death?” Gordon snaps, “What the fuck, Sophie? Why on Earth should he deserve a good death?” He tugs on my shirt again, hauling me upright with a grunt.

I twist around to look at him, and pull my shirt free of his fist. “This is all I can do for him, Gordon,” I cry, “He’ll go to Hell if I don’t! Don’t you understand that?”

““A good death”?! Do you think he’d have done the same for me?” he snarls. His eyes are on fire, sharp teeth bared. “If Chris goes to Hell, it’s ‘cause he belongs there. You know he does.”

“Take me back to the shore,” I whisper, “Take me back to the shore, so that I can--” I break off, shaking my head. “I don’t know. I just can’t stay here. Please take me back.”

Gordon nods, and rubs my shoulder. “Of course. I’m sorry.” He manages half a smile, and kisses me on the forehead. “I’m really sorry, Soph. Sorry that it ended this way. And that I started it all.” He gazes over my shoulder, and his eyes--now filling with tears--widen. “Holy fuck!”

The boat trembles underneath me, and suddenly Chris is shoving me against the gunwales, and scrambling at Gordon again. How is he-- How can he be-- He can’t be--

But he is.

But this time, Gordon’s ready for him, and he’s gripping Chris’ biceps, shoving him back, wrestling him over the side of the dinghy and grappling him around until Chris’ shoulders and head are hanging over the water.

“Did you have fun?” Gordon yells, voice hoarse, “Is this how you felt? When you went after me? ‘Cause if you’re scared right now, how the fuck do you think I felt, you piece of shit?”

He’s alive, and he’s-- He looked dead. I thought he was dead.

“You deserved it,” Chris growls, “Fucking poof like you, hanging around my girlfriend. What was I mean to do?”

“Stop it, both of you,” I groan, stomach churning as I cling to the starboard row-lock. “Please stop it.” I want to shout it, want to scream it, at them, but all that comes out is a feeble squeak, like I’ve already been screaming for hours.

There’s a flash of blue between the trees by the beach. I’m not even sure I see it. I squeeze my eyes shut, just for a moment. And then it’s gone.

There’s a splash, and I startle upright, gasping as I drag myself over to port--oh, God, dear God, please don’t let the boat overturn--to see Gordon holding Chris’ head underwater.

Chris’ arms flail against the inside of the hull, hands clenched into fists, thumping against the wood, legs scrabbling, shoes crashing and crashing and crashing.

“Gordon, stop it, please!” I grab his shoulders and haul on his shoulders with my full weight, but it’s no match for Gordon and Chris together. “Let go of him! I’m begging you, let him go!” I slap Gordon on the back as hard as I can.

He yelps. And he doesn’t let go of Chris, but at least he pulls his head out of the water, and yanks him upright.

Chris splutters, spitting out water. He coughs raggedly, retching and lurching forwards.

But Gordon holds him up like a brace. I don’t know where his strength is coming from. He drops his voice to a deathly hiss. “Just so you know, I’m only leaving you alive because of Sophie. Because it would destroy her if I didn’t. But I won’t be this kind next time. Mark my fucking words, if you cross me or any of my friends again, nobody will ever find your body. Got it?”

Turning his head to look at me, Chris blinks hard, and tears roll down his cheeks. “Soph.” He’s shaking in his whole body, and his inky hair is plastered to his forehead, dripping rivulets over his skin. “Please.”

I shake my head. “You created this mess,” I whisper, “I’m not fixing it for you.”

Chris’ voice cracks, and his eyes bulge as he looks wildly from me to Gordon. “What?”

Gordon grins at him. “You heard her. Bye-bye!” And with that he pushes Chris’ head over the side, grabs his legs, and posts them into the water after him.

“Gordon, what the fuck?” I yelp.

“Grab an oar,” he says, picking up one of them and clambering onto the centre seat. “Come on! What are you waiting for?!”

Uh, I don’t know, Gordon. I might be waiting for Chris to resurface? To make sure you haven’t actually killed him? Like I thought you did, five minutes ago? Or maybe I’m just shaking so hard that I can barely feel my body.

I say nothing. I force myself to drag my eyes away from the water. I take a seat next to Gordon, take up an oar, and start to row.

In our wake, the surface of the lake splinters, and Chris bursts into the air, gasping, but he’s facing away from us. He treads water for a moment, and slowly turns around.

Expecting him to swim after us, I pull harder on my oar, and hiss at Gordon to do the same.

But Chris doesn’t swim after us. He just bobs on the spot, water lapping against his throat as he stares, and stares, and stares.

Chapter 10: Confession: Lena
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Assault / Discussion of Attempted Murder / Discussion of Drowning / Discussion of Homophobia

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
The rain starts as the kettle boils, and I pull the sleeves of my cardigan down around the heels of my hands, shivering as I pull the kitchen window shut. On the worktop, there are two mugs, each one housing a teabag, and I fill them with the bubbling water, glasses steaming up.

I should have worn slippers. The kitchen floor tiles are great slabs of slate, freezing in this kind of weather, and my feet are tinged with grey and blue as I look down. My toes are white, and I clench them, wincing. At least I won’t have to worry about cold hands, once the tea’s ready.

The doorbell rings, and there’s such a pounding on the front door that for a moment I wonder if it might be thunder overhead. I pad through to the hallway, and peek through the peephole.

It’s way too dark outside for me to see who’s out there. I fumble for the lightswitch, and switch the porch-lamp on.

Light floods Sophie’s tearstained face, and I yank the door open, dragging her into the house and wrapping her up in my arms, pulling my cardigan around her as she shakes and sobs and sobs and shakes.

Outside, splashes of rain leap up off the cobblestones, and lightning flickers across the sky.

I squeeze Sophie’s hands, and pull away gently so that I can shut the door behind her. “We’re the only ones in the house,” I tell her, “My brother’s probably at the Benns’ house, with Tetty. My parents are catching a film in Prudhoe. They won’t be back for a few hours yet.”

“I’m sorry,” Sophie whispers, tears streaming down her cheeks, even with her eyes shut. She wraps her arms around herself, fingertips digging into her biceps as she shakes. That’s all she says. But she says it over and over again. “I’m sorry… I’m sorry…”

“Hey, darling, hey, don’t be sorry. It’s OK.” I scoop her back into my arms and hold her close. “I promise it’s OK.”

Sophie shakes her head, face rubbing against my shoulder, tears soaking into my cardigan. “It’s not… I’m sorry… I’m so sorry.”

She’s a good five inches shorter than I am, and small in her build, too. I tighten my arms around her waist and pick her up, so that she doesn’t have to walk. She barely weighs a thing, and she clings to me tightly as I carry her through to the kitchen, and help her into a chair at the table.

“Here, sweetie, have some tea.” I bring one of the mugs to her.

Loosely, very loosely, she wraps her hands around it, fingers hovering half an inch away from the china. She breathes in the steam without speaking, and her eyes flicker shut behind the foggy lenses of her glasses. They’re flecked with dirt, spots of rain, and splash-marks. From the lake? I…?

“I’m sorry,” she whispers, squeezing her hands around the cup and then wincing.

I grab her hands and pull them away, cradling them between my own. “Careful, darling. You’ll hurt yourself.”

Sophie looks up at me, and her usually-hooded eyes are wide and swollen. “Why not?” she mumbles. She casts her eyes back to the surface of the tea, squinting at the scale on the surface. Hard water. “I deserve it.”

Dear God. Please, no. I squeeze her hands and kiss the tips of her fingertips. “Please don’t say that, Soph. It’s not true.”

“I’m sorry,” Soph says, “I’m so sorry.” She chokes on a sob, and doubles forward, resting her forehead against our twined hands. “I screwed up. I screwed up so badly.”

“Screwed up?” What does that mean? “Screwed up”, how? Is Gordon… Did Chris… I can’t bear to finish a single one of my thoughts. “Soph?” My voice is a squeak. My throat is cinching itself closed. “What’s happened?”

Sophie wails slowly and quietly, a thin, frail sound trickling out of her like a tear down a cheek. “Gordon… He… I thought… I thought Chris was dead. I was praying for his soul and everything. And then… And then he wasn’t. And then Gordon tried to kill him.”

I swallow hard. “Oh, Soph… You know that’s not your fault, right?”

“Yes, it is,” Sophie whispers, nodding. Tears drop right off her cheekbones and splash onto the tablecloth. “And… I mean… They’re both… OK… if anyone could be after…” She shakes her head. “But I should have stopped it. I was there. I could’ve stopped it. And I didn’t. And if it had--” A sigh. “If Gordon had actually managed it… if Chris had died… it would’ve been my fault. Just as much as it would’ve been my fault if Gordon had… if Gordon had died. And he nearly did! He nearly did, and that was my fault, too. And now he’s like this, and--”

“No,” I say firmly, gripping her hands. “No. Look at me. Look at me, Soph.”

At last she lifts her head and meets my eyes. Her lip is trembling, her chest heaving.

“It’s not your fault,” I say, “None of this has been your fault.” I bite my lip. Maybe some of it is. Maybe this evening… was… a bit… but she doesn’t need to hear that right now. And it’s not like she’s been thinking straight, these last few days. I swallow hard. “This is Chris’ fault. What Chris did to Gordon wasn’t your fault. And what Gordon did to Chris was both their faults. Gordon’s fault, and Chris’ fault, both. But not yours.”

Soph shudders. “No… You don’t understand… It really is my fault. Not just these last few days. But this whole situation.”

What? I don’t have time to ask her what on Earth she means by that before she says.

“God’s punishing me,” she whispers, “Father Matthew says He’s not, but… He is. He is punishing me, and he’s turning all my friends against each other to do it.” She pulls her hands free of mine, takes off her glasses, and rubs her eyes with the cuffs of her shirt. “When Gordon came out… and Chris stormed off… that was a warning. That was just the start of it. Everything else… Everything else that’s happened has happened because I didn’t pay attention to that warning. Because I didn't listen. Because I didn’t stop… Because I couldn’t stop. So it is my fault. And now God’s punishing me for it.”

I shake my head. “I’m not sure that’s how it works. Why would God punish you? He loves you, Soph.” I lean forward, and reach for her hands again, but she snatches them away. Of course she does. Of course she does. I fold my hands on the table in front of me. Sophie’s wrong. If God’s punishing anyone, He’s punishing me for being… like this.

“No, He doesn’t,” Sophie mumbles, “God hates me. The Bible says so.” Her golden-brown hands shake as she lifts them and clutches the back of her neck. She looks down. “You should hate me too. I deserve it.”

Pain splits my chest into pieces. Poor Soph. She didn’t ask for any of this… and if Chris hadn’t attacked Gordon, she’d never, ever have agreed that he--or anyone else, for that matter--deserved to be attacked, right back. No way. That’s not Soph and it never has been, and I fight the urge to cry out. But I manage to whisper it, softly and gently. “You don’t deserve it, Sophie. And I could never hate you. I promise. I couldn’t.”

She nods. “You should. And you will. When you find out.”

“Find out what?” My fingertips start going pale, and I wrap them around my cup to warm them. “When I find out what?”

Sophie doesn’t answer, just shakes her head.

“Hey. Hey. Sophie?” I’m still pressing my fingers against the mug, but I lean so far forward that our foreheads are practically pressed together.

There’s silence.

The inch and a half of air between us feels like a wall of breezeblocks. I’m rarely ever so close to her, but Sophie feels like she might be a country mile away.

“Soph?” I whisper, “Can I tell you something? Something that...” I shake my head. I don’t know why I’m saying this. I have no idea if it’ll help. “...It might make you feel a little better about whatever you think will make me hate you.”

Sophie looks up. “What could you possibly tell me that’s worse than what I’m keeping from you?” she mumbles. But her tears have stopped. I guess that’s one thing?

“I’m… I’m a--” The words stick in my throat, trapped like a log against a rock in a fast-flowing river. I cough. “I’m…”

Sophie reaches forwards and wraps her hands around mine. “You don’t have to tell me if you don’t want to,” she says, “If it’s difficult… don’t force yourself to say it. Especially not for me.”

I pull my hands away. “And you don’t have to hold my hands.”

“Why not?” she asks, “I want to…. unless you don’t want me to.” She puts her head in her hands, and furrows her brow. “Never mind. Of course you don’t want me to.” She glances at the ceiling, and her lips move.

“No. No… I do...” I stammer, “That’s... um....” My eyes burn, and tears spill over. “That’s kind of the problem. ‘Cause I… um… I like you.”

“I like you, too,” Sophie says, “You’re my best friend! You and Tim!”

I shake my head, and stare at the tabletop. “No. I mean, I like you more than I should. More than you like Tim... and more than I like Scott.” And now I look up. “So… all of this? If it is God’s punishment… it’s aimed at me. Not you.”

Sophie picks up her tea, and I flinch, thinking she’s going to throw it on me. But she drinks, and downs the whole cup, squeezing her eyes shut and grimacing--like it’s vodka--as she swallows it all, right to the last drop. She coughs and splutters, and bangs her fist against her chest as she bumps the mug down on the table. “Sorry,” she says, “I just...” She frowns. “I just didn’t see that one coming.”

“I’m the one who should be sorry,” I whisper, burying my face in my hands and dabbing my streaming eyes on the sleeves of my cardigan. “If I just had more… self-control… none of this would ever have happened.” I press my fingertips hard against my crucifix, hard enough that it hurts, and it sticks even when I take my hand away. Good. “I try, Sophie,” I say, “I promise, I try, and I have tried, again and again to make it go away, so that I can be a good Catholic… and a good friend to you… but I just… I just can’t. It doesn’t work, and I hate myself for that. And I’m sorry.”

"Don't be sorry," Sophie whispers, reaching for my hands and pulling them closer to her, "It's not your fault. It's not anyone's fault; it's not a fault at all." She sighs, and rubs her thumbs over the backs of my hands. "And please don't hate yourself. Please don't hate yourself. God doesn't hate you, and He's not punishing you."

I nod. "But He is."

"No!" Sophie shouts, squeezing my hands as she squeezes her eyes shut. Her face contorts and her whole body shakes. "God doesn't hate you, and you shouldn't hate yourself either! Heaven knows, girls like us get enough hate as it is!"

Chapter 11: Image: Sophie
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Homophobia.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
I slap my hands over my mouth. No, no, no, please, Jesus, Lord, let me take that back. What I just confessed to. Because of what Lena just confessed to. My heart is trying to punch its way out of my chest, I know; I can feel my ribs flexing and bowing against its force. I shut my eyes. Maybe this situation will go away if I shut my eyes.

But when I open them, Lena is still right in front of me, sitting on the other side of the table. When I open them, Lena is still there, and she still knows.

She blinks. ""Girls like us"?" she repeats in a trembling voice.

"Forget I said anything," I creak, "Please, forget I ever said that."

"No." Lena frowns. "Soph… What do you mean, "girls like us get enough hate as it is"?"

Hell. That is where I am right now. Hell. That is where I deserve to be for being such a fucking idiot and not keeping my fucking mouth shut.

I shake my head. "Nothing." I can't keep looking her in the eye. Right now her gaze feels like fire burning my pupils. I stare at the tablecloth instead. "I didn't mean anything."

"You're gay, aren't you?" she whispers.

"No…" I mumble. And that's my escape route. I should just stop talking right now and save myself from whatever I'll bring down if I say it. But I don't. "I'm bi," I whisper, "Always have been." And then the words come easily, as if God is holding my hand, helping me along. "Figured out that I liked girls before I ever had a crush on a guy."

Lena laughs, tears trickling over her cheeks. But it's not a happy laugh; there's no humour in it. "I guess I won't be alone, then," she says, "Won't be the only one getting… I don't know… Struck by lightning."

"Why would we get struck by lightning?" I wipe my eyes on my sleeve. Thank the Lord I've managed to stop crying somewhere in all of this.

"Because of… you know. Leviticus 18:22." Lena bows her head. "You know what it says."

I nod. "Father Matthew explained that one to me just recently, actually. When I went to Confession on Saturday. My birthday?" Folding my hands on the table in front of me, I pick at fraying threads on my sleeves. "I kind of… came out to him then, and I was really freaking out, 'cause of… well, 'cause of Leviticus 18:22, but… he said it doesn't mean what people think it does."

Lena blinks. "But… I mean, even so. It's a sin. To be… you know."

Oh. She can't say it when it applies to her. I think I might be able to hear my heart breaking. I can definitely feel it. Like bone splintering. A twist of agony accompanied by a flash of bright sparks across my vision.

"It's not," I insist, "People think it is, because that verse has been lost in translation. But if you look at the original Hebrew meaning…" I shake my head. "It's not, not at all. The original verse is "A man shall not lie with a man in the bed of a woman,", not "as with a woman". And it says that because when it was written down, a bed was just about the only thing a woman was allowed to own. It's basically a law against trespassing. It's not really about sex. They're not allowed to do anything in a woman's bed—shag, knit, read, whatever—but they can do whatever they want in their own bed."

Lena chews her lip. "I mean… if Father Matthews says so… then…" She frowns, shakes her head, and wipes her eyes. “I guess he knows God better than we do, right?”

“Exactly,” I say, “And it’s his job to understand things so that he can explain them to us when we don’t.” I lean across the table and touch Lena’s arm. It’s actually... making more sense to me, now that I’m explaining it to Lena… than it’s made this entire time. My entire life. Something else has occurred to me. “And Tim knows more about Theology than we do, doesn’t he? Whose side has he taken through all this?”

“...Gordon’s...” Lena mumbles, sitting up straighter. “On everything except the revenge… and that’s ‘cause Tim’s a Pacifist, not ‘cause Gordon’s gay… Oh, my goodness...” The corners of her mouth twitch, a flicker of a smile. “Oh, my goodness… Am I OK to be-- Am I OK to be a lesbian?” She covers her face with her hands, and starts sobbing. “Oh, my goodness… Oh, my goodness… All this time…”

I nod. “You’re completely OK to be a lesbian! Of course you are! It’s not like you chose to be, is it? It’s how you were born. Doesn’t that suggest that God was the one that made you that way?” I reach for her hands, and trace hearts against the bright blue veins on their backs. “It’s who you are, Lena. It’s who God wants you to be. And you know as well as I do that He doesn’t make mistakes.”

A cold shock runs down my spine as I remember saying that same thing to Chris… only yesterday… How was that only yesterday? Yesterday… This afternoon, even… he was someone I loved. And I left him to founder in the lake… because of what he did this evening. I did that. To someone I loved. Someone I cared about.

I look at Lena, and bite the inside of my cheek hard enough that I taste blood for a moment. What if I do something like that to her? Leave her on her own, somewhere she’s not safe? My stomach twists, and I shudder.

“What’s the matter?” Lena whispers, taking my hands in hers. She lowers her voice, even though there’s nobody else in the house, just us. “Are you OK?”

I shake my head. “No,” I squeak, “I’m fucking terrified.”

Lena scrapes back her chair and comes to stand beside me, arms wrapped around my shoulders. “Don’t be scared, sweetheart. You’re always safe with me, I promise.”

“I’m not scared of you. And I’m not scared for myself,” I whisper, “It’s the other way around.”

“You’re…” Lena pauses for a long moment, and I think I can hear the cogs turning in her brain, as she works out what I mean. “You’re… scared… of yourself… on my behalf?”

I nod, resting my cheek on her arm. “I’m a bad person, Lena. The stuff I did to Chris…”

“You wouldn’t have done it if you hadn’t been in that situation!” Lena exclaims, “It’s not like… It’s not like you’d have hurt him if he hadn’t hurt Gordon first.” She hugs me tighter. “And if you really were a bad person… you wouldn’t regret it. That little voice, saying you did wrong? That’s your conscience. That’s the part of you that knows right from wrong, and that’s the part of you that matters. The part of you that’s sorry. The part of you that’s scared you’ll do it again, because you know it’ll hurt someone.”

“It doesn’t matter!” I sob, “The fact is, I did it in the first place! I sat there and let it happen. I might as well have held Chris’ head under the water myself.”

“But you didn’t,” Lena says, “You didn’t. And you wouldn’t do it again. And you wouldn’t have done it before. Look.” She loosens her arms, and crouches down beside me. “Tell me how you felt. Out on the water. Happy? Angry? Sad?”

“Scared,” I whisper. It comes out like a hiss, like a gas leak. “So fucking scared that I couldn’t move. So fucking scared that I couldn’t do anything to stop it.”

“Right,” Lena says, “But you wanted to?”

I choke back the next wave of tears. “Of course I wanted to!”

Lena strokes my cheeks, wiping the tears away with her thumbs. “Then don’t blame yourself. You’d have stopped it if you could’ve done. You would. You know you would.” She smiles, and takes hold of my hands. “You’re not a bad person, Soph. You weren’t the one holding Chris’ head underwater; that was Gordon. You were the one who wanted it to stop. That’s you. The one who wanted an end to the violence. The one who’d have made it happen if you hadn’t been paralysed with fear.”

“I was yelling and yelling at both of them to stop,” I stammer, “Begging them. And then Gordon did.”

“Soph.” Lena widens her eyes at me. “Do you know what that means?”

I shake my head.

“It means you did get it to stop,” she says, “You made Gordon stop. That was you. So please don’t feel bad about it. And don’t call yourself a bad person. I promise you’re not.”

I don’t argue with her. Not out loud, at least. But maybe she works out what I’m thinking--yes, I am, yes, I absolutely am--because then she stands up, and wraps her arms around me.

“You are not a bad person, Sophie,” she says, “You’re a lovely person, a sweet person. And that’s why… That’s why I love you.”

“You don’t,” I mumble, “You’re just saying that to make me feel better.”

Lena’s arms tighten around my shoulders. “Of course I love you,” she whispers, “I’ve been in love with you since First Communion. And I figure… I’ve tried so hard to make that go away, to stop loving you… that it’s got to mean something that I still do.”

I shake my head. “I don’t deserve it,” I mumble, “I don’t deserve you.”

Lena strokes my hair, and bends down to kiss my forehead. “Yes, you do. At the very least. Someone better, even. But that’s who I’ll try to be… if you’ll let me?”

Wait. Hang on. I look up, resting my head on her chest as I look into her eyes. “Are you asking what I think you’re asking?”

“Yeah…” Lena whispers, “Um… Will you… be my…”--she closes her eyes, and whispers that last word--“…girlfriend?”

“I don’t know what to say…” I bow my head, and stare into my lap. “I mean… What about Scott? Won’t it… hurt him?”

Lena shakes her head. “Oh, no, sweetie, no… He’s the only other person I’ve told. But he’s known for years. Since about a week before we started going out. Well…” She makes finger-quotes. “Before we started “going out”. Don’t worry about Scott. He’s OK with it. And… honestly…” She trails off, and chuckles. “I think, if it hadn’t been for Chris, he’d have been encouraging me to ask you out a long time ago.”

And if it weren’t for Chris, he’d probably be encouraging her to ask me out now. But then, if it weren’t for… everything that’s happened in the last few days… Chris and I would still be together.

Neither of us speaks for a minute. We’re both thinking the same thing.

“We’d have to keep it a secret,” Lena mumbles, “At school… At home…” She sighs. “It’s OK if you don’t want to. I can imagine that being stressful. Having to hide all the time.”

“We already have to hide all the time,” I point out. I look up at her, and smile. “And, if that’s how things are gonna be for the foreseeable future… I’d quite like to hide together.”

Lena stands in front of me, beaming.

And then she strokes my hair behind my ear. And then she leans forwards. And then she cups my face in her hands. And then she kisses me.

Outside, the rain pours as I pull Lena onto my lap, wrapping my arms around her waist and squeezing her close to me, my skin craving the pressure of her body against mine, the reassuring calm of her weight on my thighs proof this is real. This is real. This is real! What I have dreamed of for over half my life, what I have wished and hoped and prayed for ever since I’ve known how to think… is happening.

And I am awake, so very wide awake, and my heart is dancing a giddy waltz, and this is real.

Lena pulls away and rests her forehead against mine, eyelashes fluttering like the delicate wings of a butterfly. Her quick breaths dance against my lips like a gentle summer breeze, and when her eyes meet mine, everything in me melts, and I sink against her chest, resting my cheek against the blossomy chiffon of her dress.

That blue dress, so soft and graceful… fabric like the sighs of the brook over the rocks to the lake, bubbles flickering against the surface like a heartbeat.

“Do you wanna come up to my room?” she asks, “We could curl up on my bed, be a lil bit more comfortable… Maybe we could cuddle under a blanket or something? It’s chilly in here, and I can’t sit on your lap forever.”

“Of course you can sit on my lap forever,” I whisper, rubbing the tip of my nose against hers. “But, yes, please…” I kiss her on the cheek.

Slowly, Lena stands up, wincing as her bare feet press into the cold floor. But she smiles. And then her face falls as she looks over my shoulder. “The window,” she whispers, eyes wide, “The blinds are up. I… I forgot. Completely! What if someone saw us?” Her whole body is shaking. “Sophie, we might’ve been spotted. What if Chris saw?”

I scramble out of my chair and rush at the window, dropping the Roman blinds down as quickly as I can. “It’s OK,” I say, “Nobody saw. We didn’t see anyone looking in. And we were only kissing for half a minute.” I cross the kitchen, take her hands, and squeeze them until her breathing slows, and she can open her eyes again. “Let’s tell ourselves nobody saw, OK? I’ll pop the kettle on, so we can have more tea, while you go upstairs and close the curtains in your room. I think you need some cuddles after that fright. Don’t you?”

She smiles, and breathes out slowly through pursed lips. “OK,” she whispers, kissing me again. She bends her head, and strokes my waist with her thumbs as she presses a line of soft kisses against the side of my neck, from the freckles below my earlobe, down to the curve of my collarbone. And then she pushes the collar of my shirt aside, and brushes her lips along my shoulder. “See you in a moment,” she murmurs against my skin. Her breath is a feather tracing fire on my nerve-endings.

As she skips out of the kitchen, I cling to the edge of the kitchen table, swaying as my head spins. I can still feel her mouth on me, vestiges of her kisses still dancing there, and there, and there.

And then I put the kettle on.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Soph is waiting for me when I get up to my bedroom, carrying mugs of fresh tea and chocolate biscuits on a tray.

I set our teas down on my desk—they’re far too hot to drink yet—and clamber onto the bed, crawling over the blankets to snuggle up against her, sighing as her arms slide into place around me.

I press my cheek against the soft of her chest, and shut my eyes, breathing her in, breathing in the sweet frankincense scent that infuses her shirt.

She bends her head and presses her lips against my cheek. “You’re so beautiful,” she whispers, smoothing her hands up and down my back.

I open my eyes and gaze at her, stroking her neck with my fingertips.

She shivers. “That tickles,” she breathes, lips quivering into a smile. “Do it again?”

I shift in her arms, and lay down so that my head’s in her lap, and I can look up at her, admiring every fine line, every delicate peachy hair that dusts her cheeks.

I reach up, walking my fingers slowly along the ridge of her shoulder, and up the side of her neck to her earlobe, smiling at all the tiny freckles dotting their way from here to there. Each one is just slightly raised, like a gemstone set in precious metal.

Sophie giggles, and tangles her fingers in my hair, running them through it from dark blonde root to pale gold tips. “How are you so incredibly beautiful?”

“Coming from you!” I exclaim, sitting up indignantly to press my forehead against hers.

The frames of our glasses bump together, overlaid lenses blurring her eyes in front of mine, making vibrant blossoms of her citrine irises.

“Might be an idea…” I mumble, “…To take these off…” I reach up for my glasses, but Sophie takes my hands and slips my fingers onto the frames of her own.

“Do mine first,” she whispers, “I wanna kiss your neck while you take yours off.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

We’ve fallen asleep in each other’s arms. I wake slowly, thinking I’m still dreaming as I lift my head and gaze at Sophie, still slumbering, long black eyelashes whispering against her graceful cheekbones. Her chest—my pillow—rises and falls with her steady breaths, and her arms still cradle me.

What broke my sleep? A noise?

I slip my arms out from under Sophie’s waist, and steady my hands either side of her body, heaving myself up so that I can listen out properly.

A car door thumps dully shut, and I startle, heart leaping into a tempo presto as I shake Sophie awake. That was right outside my house. That was what woke me.

She squints at me and rubs her eyes, mumbling incoherently.

“Sweetie, you’ve gotta get up, right now,” I say, “My parents are home.”

Sophie’s eyes widen, and she scrambles out from underneath me, kicking off the sheets as I roll over onto my side. “Fuck, fuck, fuck,” she whispers, her whole face contorting as she stumbles around my room, pulling at her cheeks as she peers about. “Glasses, fuck! Where are my glasses!”

I stop in the middle of remaking my bed—rearranging the sheets so that they’re as neat and crisp as they usually are before I go to sleep—and fumble around on the desk until my fingers bump against the gold wire frames of my glasses.

Sophie’s lay next to them, and I hand them to her as I pick up my own. She comes into focus as a wild thing, chest heaving, limbs shaking, eyes wide. “What do we do?” she hisses, “They’re gonna find me here! There’s no time to climb out of the window!”

“Um… Sophie…” I say, reaching out to touch her shoulder, “They’re not gonna mind you being here. They think I’m with Scott, remember? And they think we’re friends. Which we are! It’s just… that’s not the only thing we are. But they don’t know that. And they’re not gonna work it out, are they? Not if we just act like we always have.”

She stops pacing the floor, takes a deep breath, sighs, and finally smiles. “You’re right,” she says. And then she checks the time on her phone, and grimaces. “It’s almost midnight. They’re not gonna be cross with you for having a friend over this late on a school night?”

I giggle. “Oh, yeah, they’ll be livid, but…” I shrug. “It’s worth it. To spend time with you.” I kiss her on the cheek. “Now, come on, I’ve got to make my bed before they come up here and find me, for one, still awake, and for another thing, with a mate.”

Sophie helps me rearrange the duvet and all the throw-cushions, and we sit down on the bed together just in time to hear the front door bumping open downstairs, and my parents’ muffled voices moving into the kitchen.

Sophie reaches for her cup of tea, and not realising until she’s taken a big gulp that it’s cold. She scrunches up her face, and shudders. “I think we were asleep for a while. What are your Mum and Dad saying?”

I strain my ears, catch my Dad muttering in Polish, and giggle. “Oh, apparently I left the kitchen light on. Whoopsie.”

“Whoopsie!” Sophie giggles, and sips resolutely at her tea. “I’m determined to finish this,” she growls, “It is not going to beat me.”

Mum’s quick, light footsteps come up the stairs, and she pushes open my bedroom door. “Lena Jane Szczepanski!” she says, folding her arms, “You have school in the morning, and so does Sophie! What are you still doing up and about?”

I chew on the sleeve of my cardigan. “We were just having a little cup of tea before we said goodnight,” I say, “We’ve been working on a school project. Um. For English? And, yeah…” I know. I know I’m the worst liar in the world. “Um… got a bit… sidetracked? “Of Mice and Men”. You know how it is.”

Rolling her eyes and sighing heavily, Mum shakes her head. “Well. I won’t be able to stop you staying up ‘til all hours, studying with your friends, when you get to uni, but as long as you’re at school, yes, I can.” She flashes her teeth in a slightly-unnerving smile. “So you’re going to go to bed, and Sophie’s going to go home, OK?”

“Sorry, Mummy,” I mumble, biting my nails.

“Don’t bite your nails, sweetheart,” Mum says, turning on her heel and ambling out of my room, muttering to herself, “Girl’s the most boring delinquent in the world.”

As soon as Mum’s definitely out of earshot, Sophie turns to me with a grin. “I think you should definitely tell her you’re a lesbian,” she says under her breath, “Spice up your record a little bit. “Of Mice and Men!”” She scoffs. “Get a motorbike or something!”

I wrinkle my nose. “Nah, that’s lost its rebellious connotations since Archie got one.” And then I remember where my brother is tonight, and the fact he was meant to come back home at some point. And hasn’t. “Oh…” I turn to Soph and grin. “I have a feeling Archie might get a bollocking!”

“You’ll get a bollocking if I don’t hop home right and get mine,” Soph says, pecking me on the cheek, and hugging me tightly. “I’ll see you tomorrow, yeah? At the bus stop?”

“Of course, sweetie,” I say, kissing her back, and squeezing her hands. “Love you.”

“I love you, too.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I text Scott as soon as I wake up the next morning--and I am not happy to wake up when I do, which, yes, all right, is the same time as I usually wake up… except that it’s only about three hours after I actually went to sleep--to ask him to meet me at the bus stop as soon as possible. And, yes, I do know that’s a completely unreasonable request, but so was having to say goodbye to Sophie last night instead of getting to fall asleep with her again and then wake up next to her again. Having that beautiful luxury once and not again might kill me.

Scott and I are the first people at the bus stop, which is just as well, because, quite honestly, if anyone saw me stroll up--ostensibly to dump my boyfriend--with this big a smile on my face, and this Gordon-like a spring in my step… I’m not convinced they’d think it was ever a legit relationship. Which of course, it never was.

“Hey, what’s cheered you up?” he says, hugging me as I approach, “You look like you just, like, bumped into Jesus on your way here or something. What’s up?”

I jump up onto the bench and sit on the back of it. “I can’t quite believe it,” I say, clapping my hands and then folding my arms tightly across my chest, clinging to my arms and hugging myself. “Um. She said I could tell you.”

Scott grins. “Tell me, then!"

I know what this means for Scott, and it's not that I don't love him. I just… I know this will make it final. The particular way I love him. And the particular limits of that love.

But I can't contain this warmth blooming in my chest, this pure and certain joy beating through my veins. Even though I try to breathe slowly and calmly, my next words tumble out of me almost like a laugh, "Soph and me!" I exclaim, "Me and Soph! Last night, um, yesterday evening… we kind of—"

Scott's eyes pop. "You hooked up?"

I elbow him in the ribs. "Of course not! You know I want to wait until I'm married! Especially now that I can get married."

"You made out, then?" he guesses.

I bite my lip, and hide my blushes with my hands "Um… maybe a little bit?"

Scott wraps his arm around my shoulders and hugs me tightly. "Oh, my goodness, Lena, that's great! So, are you two…" He swallows so hard that I see all the muscles in his throat tightening for that moment. But he's holding it together really well. "So, are you together now?"

Well, I can't help but giggle, then, and I clasp my hands together as if I'm praying, just like I spent a whole hour praying after she left last night, thanking the Lord for this incredible happiness. "Yes! Yes, we are! I can hardly believe it, but yes!"

Scott nods, and squeezes my hands. "So, um… what do you want to do about us, like…" He furrows his brow, and looks up and down the High Street. "'Cause it's entirely up to you, but I kind of worry that… it might not be safe? Like, for either of us… if we make a big show of having broken up. Unless you can come up with a good reason, so we can convince people it happened because of something else… like, other than us both being Queer."

I clear my throat. "Not so sure I'm happy telling everyone I've got a boyfriend when I've actually got a girlfriend," I mumble, picking at a stray thread on the sleeve of my blazer. "I mean… it doesn't have to be right away that we break up—if that's what we're gonna call it—but…" I shake my head. "I'm sorry. It just… feels weird, thinking I'll be with Sophie while everyone thinks I'm with you. Like I'm…" my stomach gurgles. "Having an affair with her… or something."

"Of course," Scott says, wrapping his arm tightly around my shoulder and pulling me close. "Whatever feels right for you."

"If you're sure," I tell him, "Only if you're sure."

"I'm not sure we'll be safe if we tell everyone we've split up," he says, "But I'm not sure you'll be happy if we don't, so. I mean. Your happiness is more important."

I rest my head on his shoulder. "I'm sorry I couldn't make it work between us. You know I love you, don't you? Just…"

Scott nods. "Not in that way, yeah." He smiles. "I know. And I love you, too. And I want you to be happy. So go, be with Sophie, and be adorable together. Happy together."

I dig my elbow matily into his ribs. "The same goes for you, d'you hear me?"

"What, "go, be happy and adorable with Sophie"? I mean, sure, if you insist—"

I snort with laughter. "You know what I mean! Don't be a cheeky bastard."

Scott tuts. "Damn, there goes most of my personality."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Soph and I hole up in the library as soon as morning break comes around.

She wanders the shelves for a little while first, filling her arms with the books she wants to devour this week. Something about vampires, something about Sappho, something about radium, and something about boobs. An interesting mix, to say the least, topped off with a volume of poetry by William Butler Yeats that looks heavy enough to create a black hole, but. Soph loves her poems. And I love Soph. So I don’t say anything when she comes back from the front desk with her stack, and heaves it onto the little table between the two armchairs we commandeer.

I wish this were a library with alcoves, so that we could hold hands without being seen. But it’s not, so we can’t. And all I can do is stare at her hands where they rest on the arms of her chair, hoping that she’ll understand I would hold them--and kiss them--if I could.

We speak in whispers, eyes constantly flicking around the room, wary of anyone that might pass too close and overhear.

"We've got to be careful," Sophie says, "With our phones. They're small. They're easy to steal, and I've changed the password on mine, but… still…" She shakes her head. "If we're gonna text each other… and I'd like us to be able to… we've got to make sure nobody knows who we're texting."

"Scott knows," I say, "I… um… I told him this morning. Before school."

Sophie smiles. "Nice," she says, "How did he take it?"

I nod. "Well, I think. Yeah. And I told him to go and ask out someone else he likes, so… hopefully soon he'll be happy in his own right. So. About the texts."

A quick glance around the library, and Sophie chews her lip. "There's not much we can do about the numbers, and I think it'll be pretty obvious that it's two girls, texting, but… nobody needs to know which two, right?"

"You think we should change our contact names?"

Soph nods. "If someone sees my texts over my shoulder… there's nothing else I can do to keep myself safe. But that doesn't mean you have to be outed at the same time."

I fish my phone out of my pocket, and go to my contacts. Find hers. "What do you want to be? I’d suggest middle names, but I don’t strictly-speaking have one."

Sophie giggles. "Yeah, my middle name’s Akiko, after my birth-mum, so I, uh… I feel like that might be a bit weird...” Then she frowns. “Wait, your Mum called you “Lena Jane Szczepanski” yesterday evening. Is… Is Jane not your middle name? Or is this a name you only have when you’re in disgrace?”

“Oh, yeah, no,” I say, tucking a lock of stray hair behind my ear, “It’s my confirmation name.”

“Well, why don’t we go with our confirmation names, then?" Sophie smiles. "I figure… they're ours, they're us, but people don't know them. Like, I don't know Tim's, I don't know Chris', and I don't know yours. I don't remember them, and we were all confirmed at the same time. So… Mine's Matilda. And yours is…?"

"Jane," I finish, changing Sophie's contact name to "Tilly".

Sophie beams. "Gorgeous," she says, taking out her phone and tapping at the screen. "All done," she says, "Welcome to my phone, Janey."

Chapter 12: Keeper: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Plans to Assault / Homophobia / PTSD.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
I've never been more tempted to burn down my school with, like, half the people inside. By the time I get to walk to the bus stop at the end of the day, I've fielded more questions than I can count.

Is it true that I tried to drown Chris? Is it true that I attacked him at the lake? Is it true that I, is it true that I, is it true that I?

Never a word about Sophie, and where she might have been in all this. But I guess she's not the one Chris hates, here. No. That's me. Of course that's me.

I shove my hands deep into my blazer pockets and strike out for the bus stop, feet stamping so hard against the pavement that I can hear every step through my headphones, even with my music turned up loud.

At least the teachers haven't got wind of this yet. I know how it works with them, and, like… I wouldn't blame them, because I know it's what they'd have to do, but… they'd report everything to the police, and then my Mum would get involved, and… ugh… But I guess it's only a matter of time until they pick up the rumours, and Mum gets a call at the station, and, "Yes, that is my son. What do you mean, "He's g—""

A hand grabs my arm, and tugs me backwards.

Stumbling, I rip out my headphones, replacing my Mika with my shriek. "Aagh! What the fuck?!" Furious, I spin on my heel, expecting to see Chris, but…

Scott is staring at me, eyes wide and wet as he shakes his head. "What have you done, Gordy?" he whispers, "What have you ever done?"

I roll my eyes. "I did what I had to," I mutter, "Which you'd understand if you'd ever thought anything through. And, if you'd ever thought anything through, you'd also understand that I don't want to talk about this here. In the middle of the street? When I have a bus to catch? No, thanks." I yank my arm free and stomp off, sticking my headphones back in.

“Gordon,” Scott says, running after me and grabbing my arm again. “Gordon, Lena told me what you did. To Chris?”

“Then there’s nothing to talk about, is there? Since you already know,” I snap, “So if you’d like to let go of my arm, I’d be very grateful, ta.”

“I’m not letting go of you,” Scott says, plucking my left headphone out right in the middle of “Billy Brown”. “Not until we’ve talked properly. Look, if you don’t want to discuss it here, we can go to Kirky. Get some coffee. Maybe some cake. And talk it out there. Or at my house.”

I snort with laughter. “Right, yeah, so your Mum can overhear, and then she can tell my Mum, and, uh… yeah, do you realise she’s a police officer?”

Scott sighs. “Yeah, I noticed. We can go to Kirky, then. Angus is a mensch. He doesn’t eavesdrop, and, even if he happens to overhear us… he’s not gonna pass it on if we ask him not to.” Then he bites his lip. “Actually… We might as well tell him outright. Someone’s got to warn him about Chris.”

I shut my eyes. “Fuck, you’re right.” Pulling out my other headphone, I wrap the wire around my iPod and stuff it all into my breast pocket. “You can let go of my arm, Scotty. I’m not gonna run off.”

“If you’re sure,” Scott mumbles, letting go of my sleeve, and sidling up to the bus stop with me.

He leans against the stop-pole and stares into the distance, not saying anything, even when Lena and Tim and Soph arrive, followed by Etta, Char and Stef… and, behind them, Chris, smirking and swaggering and thrusting his chin forward to show off the bruises on his face.

The bus rolls up, and Scott ushers me into a seat in the back corner of the bus, standing up next to me and glaring at Chris until he takes a seat near the front. Then Scott sits down next to me, and bows his head in silence for the whole journey back to Chase Valley.

Finally, as the bus rumbles to a halt at the bottom of the High Street, and the doors hiss open, he speaks. “I’m gonna get my bike,” he says, voice flat and quiet, “And change into casual clothes. I’ll meet you at the corner of Chase Valley Road in fifteen minutes, yeah?”

I nod, scrutinising his face, unable to decipher his expression.

Angry? It would make sense for him to be angry. He absolutely hated my plan… and that’s basically what I did, in the end. But… he doesn’t seem angry. I don’t think I’ve ever seen him angry before, but… wouldn’t he be shouting? Having a go at me? Maybe it’s not anger. He is bi. Maybe he’s just scared.

I reach out for his arm as he gets off the bus, but he shrugs my hand away, and strides away up the road, long legs carrying him much faster than I could ever go to catch him up.

Fuck’s sake.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I shut the front door behind me and sling my guitar onto my back just as Scott is dragging his bike out from the shed at the side of his house.

“Hey,” he says, looking up and grinning at me as he puts on his helmet, “You ready to go?”

I blink. Wasn’t he giving me the silent treatment a few minutes ago? Um… OK… “Yeah, are you?” I grab my bike from where it’s propped against my front wall, and kick the gate open, wheeling through it to meet Scott in the street. “Let me just sort out my extremely fashionable hat, and we’ll be off.” I tighten the band of my cycle helmet, and step onto my bike. “Oi-oi.”

Scott follows me around the corner and up the High Street, catching me up as we cross the fields and the border. He whistles all the way to Kirk Yetholm, and I think I recognise the tune from somewhere, but… I’m not sure where. Some film.

When we get to the McNicholases’ tea-rooms, Angus is nowhere to be seen; it’s Duncan that’s sweeping the floor, and their Dad behind the counter, serving us our drinks. Scott asks after him, and Mr McNicholas takes out his phone and rings Angus.

“He’ll be down in a minute,” Mr McNicholas says, “He’s just doing homework in his room.”

Ah, yes. Homework. That thing I’ve certainly been remembering to do recently. (Fuck.) I think of the arm-length list of assignments in my homework diary, and try not to shudder. I’m actually quite good at not shuddering, as it turns out, so good, in fact, that I manage to smile at Mr McNicholas, and thank him for calling Angus down.

Scott carries our tray of drinks over to the furthest table from the open windows, and I’m right about to whine that it’s a hot day, and that I “crave a breeze, Scotty”, when he puts a finger on his lips and points to a figure seated at one of the window tables, hunched in front of a laptop.

She has wicked eyeliner, thick-framed glasses, and arms full of bright pink bangles that match her bright pink lipstick. Brown eyes. Freckled brown skin. Curly brown hair, like Etta’s but shorter, undercut. One of the two cousins we share.

Gina.

OK. Yeah. There are enough other people in the tea-rooms that we can probably get away with talking quietly without being overheard… but not if we sit near Gina.

We pull out chairs and sit down, to wait for Angus. I pop back to the counter and buy a pot of tea and a slice of carrot cake for him, and I’m just putting them down next to our tray when he strolls in through the kitchen door.

And his face lights up. “My lads!” he exclaims, jogging across the room and throwing out his arms to hug us. “Not you,” he mutters, swatting Duncan out of the way, “Gordy and Scotty! Come here!”

Scott scoops me and Angus into a group hug, squeezing our shoulders and resting his chin on top of my head. “Your lads, are we?” he says to Angus, one eyebrow raised, “Should I call you presumptuous?”

Angus feigns offence, eyes wide. “Mr Noon! I would never presume to be presumptuous! How dare you presume!”

This… seems familiar… somehow… I… can almost hear Char tutting, can almost see her rolling her eyes… but I can’t… quite… work out…

“Uh, Gordy?” Angus says, pulling away from the hug and tilting his head to one side, to squint at me. “Are you OK? You look like you’re in pain.”

I shake my head. “Nah, nah, I’m fine.”

Scott grins. “He’s just upset that we’re stealing his thunder. Come on, sit with us. Feels like ages since we’ve had a proper chat.”

“It’s been a couple of days!” Angus pulls out a chair and sits down, laughing.

“Yeah, well, you’re a good pal, and we miss you,” I say, reaching across the table and biffing Angus gently in the arm. “And since you won’t move to Chase Valley,and go to a proper school, you give us no choice but to while away the hours, missing you and dreaming of the time we’ll get to see you next. It’s an abject agony, I swear it to you, my dear chap. Scott just sits there, staring out of the window, all the time.” I show Scott all my teeth, and bat my eyelashes. “He pines, that sweet fellow, positively pines for you. Tell you something, if I were Lena, I’d be distraught! And, I daresay, more than a trifle jealous.”

Scott elbows me in the ribs. “Hush your gums, dickhead,” he says, “I do not pine! And, um...” He clears his throat. “And, anyway, um…” He scratches the back of his neck. Stares into his tea. “Lena and I kind of… um… broke up.”

My stomach is torn between flipping in happiness and twisting in sadness for him. “Oh, Scotty,” I mumble, touching his shoulder, “I’m so sorry, fam. Are you OK?”

Scott nods, but he’s chewing his lip, and he doesn’t say anything.

“What happened?” Angus asks.

“We just.. Realised stuff wasn’t working between us, and… worked out that we’d be better off as friends. So, um… that’s, uh… yeah…” Scott coughs into the sleeve of his plaid shirt, shakes his head, and straightens up. “So, um, Angus… there’s, uh… something you need to know.”

Angus frowns.

I stare at Scott. Is he going to tell Angus everything? Everything, including how I… how I snapped on Chris? And… And… My chest tightens, and I’m not even sure I’m breathing.

“Chris is a lot more dangerous than any of us thought,” Scott says quickly, “And, um… He went after Gordon. So we thought we should warn you, in case you were thinking of letting him know you’re trans. ‘Cause, you know… However uncomfortable it might be to have him think you’re a girl…” He shakes his head. “Whatever Chris might do if he knew the truth… It’s not worth the risk of coming out to him.” He casts his eyes back to the tabletop. “And, honestly, if I were in your position, I think I’d be making sure I didn’t have to see him at all.”

“It’s that bad?” Angus warms his hands around his pot of tea.”

“I mean, he stamped on me and held my head underwater until I passed out,” I say, sipping my cappuccino, “So, uh, yeah. It’s that bad.”

“Jesus wept,” Angus whispers, “Have you told anyone about this? I mean, like, a teacher or… the police, or--”

Oh, this sweet, lovely chap. I want to laugh, but, like… I know that’d be rude. It’s not Angus’ fault that it’s all gone a bit shit in Chase Valley. “My Mum’s a bobby, so… um...” I raise my eyebrows and grimace. “I feel like that might be the worst way of sorting this out.”

Angus gasps. “You haven’t even told your parents?!” he exclaims, slapping his hand over his mouth and ducking down as soon as he realises how loud that was. “Gordon, does anyone at home know? Your brother? Your sister? You’ve got a sister, right?”

I shrug. “Don’t wanna drag them into this,” I mumble, “Jake and Tetty, they’ve got enough bullshit to deal with already. And, like, half of that comes from our parents. Dad, being kind of… I mean, I don’t want to say he’s useless, but… he is. And Mum’s stupidly overbearing. There’s bringing your work home with you, and then there’s treating your kids like criminals.” I tut. “Have to tiptoe around her, we do. And if she catches any of us sneaking back in after curfew, we all get hauled out of our rooms and yelled at for being irresponsible. For giving the family a bad name. So God alone knows what she’d say about Chris.”

“Thought you didn’t believe in God,” Scott says, sipping his drink.

“Yeah, that’s kind of the point,” I reply, forcing myself to smile, “God alone knows… and God doesn’t exist… so, therefore…”

“You’re saying nobody knows,” Angus finishes, pouring tea and milk into a shallow cup. “That’s, um… That’s not a good situation to be in, Gordon. I mean… I don’t know what to suggest, but…” He sighs. “You can’t go through this on your own. You shouldn’t have to.”

“Shouldn’t have to go through it at all, mate,” I reply, shrugging, “But bad things happen, so… I’ve just gotta deal with them--just gotta deal with this--the best I can.”

Scott flinches, and stares at me. “Is that what you call turning it back on Chris? Leaving him in the middle of the lake with a head injury?” His voice cracks, and his eyes fill with tears. “Sorry,” he whispers, but he’s looking at Angus as he says it. “Sorry. It’s just…” He shakes his head. “It could just as easily have been me,” he mumbles, “I’m bi. If I’d been the one to come out, Chris would’ve gone after me instead. And he still might, and it scares me, OK?”

“You don’t need to be scared, Scotty,” I say, taking hold of his hand, “We’ve fixed things, me and Soph. Chris isn’t gonna mess with anyone again. It’s fine.” My phone pings in the pocket of my jeans, and I hold up a finger to pause the conversation. “Hang on a sec. That might be my Mum, texting.”

Scott wipes his eyes as I unlock my phone.

As I unlock my phone, and see the text. The text from Chris. Shivering as my blood freezes, I drop my phone on the floor, and scrape my chair backwards with a screech to rival my howl.

“Gordy, what’s going on?!” Scott exclaims, jumping to his feet and putting his arms around me. He strokes my hair and hugs me against his chest. “What’s wrong?”

I can’t speak, only shake in his arms, tears flooding down my cheeks.

The tea-rooms disappear, all my vision going dark except for a tiny bright spot in the middle of each eye. Pinpricks of light, unbearable light, glare bone-white. And they grow, and they grow, and they form themselves into the shape of a leering skull. All skin gone, a looming, nightmarish thing dredged from Hell itself, come to seek retribution for an unceremonious burial in dirty ground.

“Gordon!” Angus appears in front of me, crouching on the ground, holding onto my arms. “Gordon, it’s OK! I’m here, Scott’s here, and you’re here, in the tea-rooms, yeah? My family’s tea-rooms? You’re safe. Can you take some deep breaths? In for four, hold for six, out for eight, nice and calm. Can you do that?”

“Breathe with me,” Scott says, counting as I do, “One, two, three, four...”

Angus nods, and smiles. “I’m gonna look for your phone, Gordon, I’m not going anywhere, just looking on the floor.” He crawls under the table, and reappears a moment later with my mobile in his hand. “Strong screen you’ve got, there,” he says, “Most things break when they hit this floor. Especially Duncan.”

“Oi!” Duncan says, prodding Angus’ shoulder with the broom-handle. I have no idea when he came over. But then he softens his voice, and leans down to look at me. “You OK, there, mate?”

Angus nods. “Panic attack,” he says, “He’ll be OK in a minute. Don’t worry. He’s in good hands, aren’t you, Gordon?” He smiles at me. “Now, then, let’s get you up to my room, give you a bit more privacy, so we can talk about what’s upset you.”

“Can you walk, Gordy?” Scotty asks, arms still wrapped around me.

I nod. I want to say, “yes,” but the word sticks in my throat as I stare at my phone. The screen is black. It must’ve timed out while I was… wherever I was just now.

Which is just as well.

Because if my phone were open, Angus and Scott--and Duncan--would be able to see in two seconds that Chris’ text said, “You think you’re so fucking clever trying to get me to shut up, to give me a taste of my own medicine? Just you fucking wait, faggot, I’m going to kill you and all your fucking fruit-fly friends, so you’d better watch your back, cocksucker.”

And I can’t bear to think of any of them getting that news in the middle of the tea-rooms.

But my phone’s locked. So it’s OK. It’s OK, and it’s gonna be OK, and I tell myself that as Scott and Angus help me through the kitchen, up the stairs in the maisonette, and into Angus’ room.

Still shaking, I fumble my way onto the bed, and unlock my phone to show them the text. “It’s horrible,” I whisper, “Horrible… I… I just…” My voice fails me again, and I have to hug my knees to my chest, just to stop shaking so much it hurts.

Scott reads the text, and then sits down on the bed, pulling me into a hug and squeezing me so tightly that my joints crack. “We’re not going to let him get away with this,” he says, “I promise you, we’re not.”

Angus sighs, and squeezes his eyes shut. “This is awful,” he whispers, “But, I mean… now that it’s in writing?” He opens his eyes and fixes them on me, lifting my chin with his finger. “You have something you can take to the police, give them evidence that he wants to hurt you.”

“He wants to kill me,” I correct him, “And everyone around me, apparently.”

“Right,” says Scott, fishing his own phone out of his pocket, “I’m calling the police for you right now.”

I swat the phone out of his hand, and it tumbles onto the duvet with a soft thud. “What good’s that gonna do? This isn’t an emergency. You can’t call 999. You need the… whatever it is.”

“101,” Scott replies, “It puts you through to the nearest police station.”

“That’s the one,” I say, “And where’s the nearest police station?” Squinting as I try to remember which way North is, I fumble around, eventually giving up, and pointing at Angus’ wardrobe. “Way over there, like…” I sigh. “Whatever. It’s Police Scotland. They don’t cover Chase Valley.”

“So we call the station in Alnwick as soon as we get back home,” Scott says, “And we report this text, and we make sure Chris gets what’s coming to him.”

“Mum,” I say, and that’s all I need to say, because I’ve said the rest what feels like a thousand times before.

“I know,” Scott mumbles, hugging me again, and pulling Angus into the embrace as well. “But think it through, Gordy. Are you prepared to stay in as much danger as this, live in as much fear as this… just to avoid a difficult conversation with your Mum? Please,” he says, and his voice softens to a croon, “Please. If not for yourself, then for everyone else. Because we love you, Gordon, we all love you, and it’s scary, watching this happen.”

“I’m scared for the lot of you,” Angus adds, “If Chris is going after your friends… I mean, I’m mostly out of reach, but… the rest of you…” He shakes his head. “I don’t like to think about it. But the only way I’ll be able to stop thinking about it is if I know that you’re all safe. And the only way I’ll be able to know that you’re all safe is if you go to the police and report what Chris has done. And what he’s threatening. Please. Tell someone.”

I nod, and rest my head on Scott’s shoulder as I fiddle with a lock of Angus’ red hair. “I guess I don’t have much choice, do I?” I mumble, “Now that I’m not the only one under threat.”

“At least you’re not alone,” Angus says. His cheeks turn pink. “And I know how stupid that sounds. But, for one, if it’s the kick up the arse you need to report Chris, then that’s good, but… also… you’re surrounded by people who are going through the same thing. And we’re going through the same thing--” He takes my hand, and squeezes it. “--Because we care about you. OK?”

“I wish that was as reassuring as I know you mean it to be,” I say, “But it just kind of… freaks me out. Knowing I’ve put everyone else in danger.”

“Oi!” says Angus sharply, “No, you didn’t! This was Chris, being an arsehole, and that’s not your fault, OK? Stop blaming yourself. And start...” He gets up off the bed, and pads across the room to his desk, opening his laptop and tapping his way to a web page. “Start reading this.” He beckons me over, and I go to see what he’s looking at.

““The Rainbow Room”?” I read--it’s the page header, done up in a bright gradient, pink through yellow to blue, with every shade in between--“What’s this about?”

Angus grins. “It’s this awesome, like, online magazine, I guess? And it’s all full of advice for LGBT people, like, especially teenagers, and… yeah, it’s a good way to feel more in touch with the community, which it… kind of feels like you need right now. Hold on--I’ll send you the link.” He pastes it into a Facebook message to me, and then into another one, to Scott, and then turns around in his swivel chair, smiling at both of us. “I hope it helps. Oh, and Iris, the writer behind it, is really lovely, too. People write in with questions, or, like, “Dear Katie” letters, and she’s always so sweet in her replies. It’s great.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

As Scott and I wheel back into Chase Valley Road, the sun is setting. I managed to stall the evening away until the police stations closed… which Scott realises as soon as we brake outside our houses.

“Your Mum’s car’s in the drive,” he says, “Did she get home already?”

I glance at my watch, and chew my lip. “Uh… yeah. Finished work about three-quarters of an hour ago, I should think.”

“So… it’s too late to report the text today?” Scott says, lowering his voice and looking over my shoulder at my house’s windows as he steps closer. “What are you gonna do tomorrow? Go before school? Go after school? Tell the teachers?”

I shrug. “I thought I’d just tell Mum. For a start… she’s my Mum… and for another thing, she’ll know, you know, the best way to go about this.” I climb off my bike and stand there, squeezing the brake levers and prodding the nearside pedal with the toe of my sneaker. “So I’ll see you tomorrow, yeah?” I say, wheeling my bike up to my front gate.

“Yeah,” says Scott, “I guess so.” He smiles at me as I look over my shoulder. “Good luck.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Of course I don’t tell my Mum about the text from Chris. I don’t like to lie to Scott, but I don’t tell Mum a damn thing, and that’s not just because she’s the way she is.

It’s also because, as soon as I get in, I’m greeted by the sound of her snipping at Tetty. I follow her voice through to the kitchen, and lean on the doorframe, listening. Well. I say “listening”. I mean “eavesdropping”.

“Esther, do not roll your eyes at me like that! I’m concerned about you, that’s all! Worried! What do you expect from me, when I come back home and find you gone, Gordon gone, and Jake gone?!”

“Jake was at work last night, Mum,” Tetty mumbles, “He’s always at work on Monday nights.”

“Ugh, yes, I know!” Mum snaps, “That’s why you needed to stay at home and look out for Gordon! He’s nowhere near old enough to be left on his own!”

Ah, yes. Yo. It is me. I am baby. (I am Banksy.)

Tetty groans, and I peek around the doorframe to see her bury her face in her hands. “Mum, come on, he’s fifteen! And you know how often he climbs out of his window! What am I meant to do, keep my eyes on him all the time?”

“Yes,” Mum replies, folding her arms and leaning against the island counter, “If that’s what it takes to keep him from wandering off on his own in the middle of the night, yes!”

(Nothing can keep me from wandering off on my own in the middle of the night. When the Hell else am I meant to go and be mysterious?)

I lean forward in an attempt to catch what Tetty says next, but I don’t hear it. Because I tread on a creaky floorboard. And, true to style, it creaks. Oops.

And Mum turns her head sharply to look at me. “Gordon! Where have you been?”

“Um…” Oh, shit. I should probably think of something to say, here, shouldn’t I? I was… uh… not meant to swan off anywhere after school this afternoon. Let alone swan off out of the country. “I was… um… in the loo.” I shove my hands into the pockets of my jeans and stroll awkwardly into the kitchen. “You know how it is.”

“Do you think I’m an idiot?” Mum demands.

Tetty catches my eye. “Don’t answer that,” she mouths.

As if I’d ever get the chance. Mum barely waits for me to breathe before she speaks again. “Never mind. I don’t care where you’ve been. You’re not going anywhere else this evening. Go and get your school-bag. You can sit in the kitchen and do your homework.”

I stare hard at the kitchen window, and sigh heavily. “Yes, Mummy.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Whoever invented being send to bed early as a punishment deserves to be sent to bed early as a punishment. For one thing, it royally screwed up my evening, and, what’s more, waking up at five and being unable to get back to sleep is not the one.

I put on some thick socks and pad down the stairs, treading as gradually as possible so that I don’t make noise. Jake works late and doesn’t do early mornings, and, since yesterday evening, Tetty’s been looking for any excuse to throw me out of a window. Which, actually… wouldn’t be that bad.

Anyway. Maybe being up this early isn’t that bad, either. There’s a toolbox in the cupboard under the stairs. Spanners and hammers and stuff. Maybe I’ll be able to find something to make me feel a little better about going to school with someone who wants me and all my friends dead.

Oh. Well. Now I’m definitely awake.

I pry the cupboard door open, and crouch down to dig through it for the toolbox. Where the fucking Hell is it?

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

With a spring in my step (and a hammer in my rucksack), I saunter up to the bus stop and sit down on the bench, next to Scotty. “And how are you, this fine morning?” I say, turning to him with a big, cheesy grin.

He squints at me, tilting his head slightly to one side. “I’m… fine...” he says. “Um… Are you? You seem very chipper for…” There’s an excruciating pause. “For a Wednesday.”

I sniff loudly. “I’ve never said a word against Wednesdays in my life, I’ll have you know. No, I’m just feeling very nicely refreshed after yesterday evening.”

Scott beams. “Oh, my goodness, you told your Mum at last!” he exclaims, clapping his hands and flinging his arms around me for a hug, “Oh, Gordon, I’m really proud of you! So… um…” He pulls away, and rubs my arm. “What did she say? Is she, like, taking it to work with her today, or… coming into school, or…”

I shrug. “Dunno yet.” It isn’t, strictly-speaking, a lie. I have no idea what she’s doing today. “I think she’s, uh… talking to my Dad about it before she does anything drastic.” Now that’s a lie, and a really stupid one at that, but Scott doesn’t seem to pick it up.

“OK,” he says, nodding and smiling. “OK, that’s a start, at least, though, isn’t it?”

Sure would be, if it were true! I grin. “Yeah. It’s a relief, you know? To know things are gonna be OK. I don’t know what I was even worried about. It’s all gonna be fine.” I put my rucksack on my lap and hug it to my chest. It is all gonna be fine.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The idea that it’s all gonna turn out OK is just a little bit too exciting for me, I guess. I practically dance into the form room, and skip up to my desk, dropping my rucksack on it with a highly suspicious thud.

My heart stops for a moment, but I shake my head, and shrug it off, muttering something about a fucking noisy ring-binder. I kind of feel like announcing to the whole class that I have a hammer in my rucksack might give the game away.

But Scott grabs my blazer sleeve, and frowns at me, leaning into my ear to speak in a voice barely audible even to me. “What was that noise?”

“What noise?” I push my chair back and sit down, slinging my bag under the desk. “I didn’t hear a noise.”

He grabs the rucksack right back and copies how I dropped it onto the table. And there’s that thud again. “That noise,” he says, “What did you do, bring your laptop to school or something?”

I should just say “yes”. That would be the sensible thing to do, but I’m apparently not having a very sensible day (with the exception of the hammer, of course). So I don’t say anything, just grin.

“Uh… Gordon?” Scott starts unzipping my bag. “What have you got in here?”

I start listing on my fingers. “Ring-binder, pencil-case, journal, notebook--”

“--Hammer?!” Scott hisses, glaring at me and zipping my bag shut so quickly he almost breaks the fastening. “What the fuck, Gordon?! Tell me you’re just, I don’t know, donating this to the CDT Department or something.”

“OK. I’m donating it to the CDT Department or something,” I mutter, flicking my eyes at the ceiling.

Scott doesn’t smile. He puts his hands on his hips and stares at me very hard. “And is that the truth?”

“No,” I say, lowering my voice as I clasp at the bag, trying to pull it back. “Obviously not. Like I’m gonna give up a perfectly good weapon?” I don’t succeed.

All I achieve is a tightening of Scott’s grip on the rip-stop canvas, and a further-furrowing of his brow. “Gordon. Why have you brought this to school?”

I flash him my teeth. “To protect against a certain… uh… ” I look around the room.

I mean, I can’t see him, but that doesn’t mean he won’t walk in as soon as I say his name. That happens, doesn’t it? Like, if you stand in front of a mirror and say “Margaret Thatcher” three times, she appears and shuts down your nearest mine?

Clearing my throat, I pull at the rucksack again. “Against a certain someone. Let’s call him Dristopher Chravison, to preserve his anonymity or whatever.” I wink, and grin. “I think you’ll find things will get a lot easier for everyone involved once Chris starts thinking he’ll get a caved-in skull if he tries anything! But I do need my backpack back, please, pal.”

“I’m not giving this back until I know you’re not going to do anything with it,” Scott says, “You’re already tied up in a police investigation! Do you honestly think it’ll look good for you if you do something stupid now?” He grabs my sleeve and hoists me to my feet. “Come on. We can’t talk about this here. Let’s go outside.”

I sigh heavily, and let him drag me out of the form-room, down the stairs and into the quad. “What?”

Scott lets go of my arm, still clinging to my backpack, and pinches the bridge of his nose. “Chris isn’t going to try anything, you idiot!”

“Oh, yeah? And how on Earth can you possibly know that?” I demand.

“Because as soon as he gets a knock on the door from the police, he’s gonna realise he’s fucked, OK?” Scott unzips my bag and pulls out the hammer. “So I’m gonna hand this into the CDT Department, and you’re gonna go back to class, and you’re gonna have a nice, calm day, and relax, knowing it’s all gonna be OK.” He smiles, and hugs me. “You don’t have to worry anymore, Gordon. The police’ll sort it out. You know they will.”

As he pulls away from the hug, I take advantage of his being off-guard for a moment, and yank my bag and my hammer out of his hands. “Mine, I think,” I say, putting the hammer away and zipping my bag shut, hugging it tightly as I run back into the school and up to the form-room.

“Oh, hello, Gordon, how nice of you to join us!” Mr Mayes says as I crash in. He looks at the clock, and sucks air through his teeth. “You’re just in time to be marked “present”.” He smiles. “Thirty more seconds and you’d have taken a “late” on your record. Sit down.”

Scott scrambles in just as I’m pulling out my chair. “Sorry I’m late, Sir,” he says, rubbing the heel of his hand through his hair and panting. “Had to. Grab something. From my locker.”

Mr Mayes tuts and shakes his head. “Don’t make a habit of it, Mr Noon. Please take a seat.”

As he takes his place next to me, Scott covers his mouth with his hand, and leans towards me to whisper, “You haven’t told your Mum anything, have you?”

I don’t answer.

“You haven’t told her anything,” he says again, “And that’s why you’ve got the hammer, ‘cause you’re still scared, ‘cause nothing’s getting fixed at all, is it?”

“Mr Noon, if you please, I’d like to take the register!” Mr Mayes says, tapping the cap of a drywipe marker against the wood of his desk. “It’d be nice if you could pipe down, thank you.”

“Sorry, Sir,” Scott mumbles. He folds his hands in front of him on our desk, and stares at them as Mr Mayes calls names.

And there’s an interesting silence after one name in particular. Here’s a clue: it’s a certain Dris Chravison. Hmm.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

“Gordon, watch the ball!” snarls Ffion in hockey, after lunch. She totters over in battered school shoes (because why wear trainers for PE when you can wear the same ugly Mary Janes you wear in all your other lessons? And get athlete’s foot! Hooray!), and puts her spindly hands on her hips. “Seriously, you’re such an idiot! Where did you even learn to play hockey, anyway?”

I turn my eyes to the sky. “At the same place I learned to give a damn about your opinion. Nowhere. If you don’t mind, I’m having a lovely daydream, and I’d like to be left in peace so I can enjoy it properly!” I give her a very sweet smile, which I think is actually quite generous of me. I could just kick her in the shin.

“You’re letting everyone down, Gordon,” Ffion snaps, “You’re not pulling your weight in this game, and it’s not on!” She stamps her foot, and blinks hard.

“OK, so take it up with Mr Mayes,” I mutter, rolling my eyes, “But until he comes over and tells me off, I’m gonna assume he doesn’t mind, yeah? ‘Cause hockey doesn’t fucking matter.” I sling my hockey stick over my shoulders like a yoke, and drape my arms over it. Then I widen my eyes at Ffion. “You can go now.”

Ffion scowls at me. “You think you’re so clever, don’t you, Gordon?”

“Yeah, I am,” I say, grinning, “Aw, it’s so sweet that you noticed!”

“You stand there, so fucking smug!” she yells, and her voice is shrill and harsh and sharp, “You think you’re the funniest person in the world, and you think everyone fucking loves you, when nobody fucking does!”

I snort with laughter. “Um… I think you might be projecting there, No-Mates McDade.” I smirk. “Unless I’ve missed the memo, and you’ve suddenly got friends that aren’t imaginary.”

She glares, and her knuckles tighten around the hockey stick she’s leaning on. “I know what you did,” she hisses, narrowing her eyes, “I know what you did to Chris. You tried to kill him ‘cause he wouldn’t…” She wrinkles her nose, and her whole face twists, like she’s about to be sick. “...let you corrupt him.”

Um. What. “I don’t know what you think you’ve heard,” I say, “But that’s not even close to what happened.”

“Chris said that’s what you did,” she replies, shrugging and looking off at the other end of the field, “So, you know, I think he’s the one I’m gonna believe.”

I squint at her, and push my glasses further up my nose. “Oh, yeah, and why’s that, exactly?”

“He’s a good Christian,” she says, “Good Christians don’t lie. The Bible says not to. So, you know...” She sniffs again. “Since I know you’re not the church-going type, I’ve got no reason to trust you.” She smiles. “It’s that simple!”

“Is it?” I say, spluttering with laughter, “Oh, shit! I guess I’ve been doing this whole thing wrong, then. Gosh, and I thought I could trust myself to do the right thing, just ‘cause! Turns out I needed to read it in a book for the message to sink in?” I grimace. “Wow, who even knows what I’ll do next? I sure don’t! Maybe I’ll break a window! Mince a vicar! Have some sex!” (In that order.) “I think I’ve got some leftover heroin in my pencil-case, actually. Fancy some?”

Ffion’s mouth disappears into a thin, shrivelled line. “You’re so disrespectful,” she snaps, “And you wonder why I don’t take anything you say at face-value!” She turns on her heel, and runs off in the direction of the ball, pasty, stick-skinny legs flashing white in the sunshine.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Later, as I’m shoving my PE kit back into my locker, ready to catch the bus home, someone clears their throat behind me.

I turn around to see Scott. “Oh, hey, there!” I say, grinning, “Hasn’t today been lovely?”

“I heard what you said to Ffion,” he says quietly, “And I think you should apologise.” And then, as my eyebrows leap up my forehead, he sighs heavily. “You know it’s the right thing to do. You wouldn’t have said that to Lena, and you wouldn’t have said it to Sophie or Tim, so you shouldn’t have said it to Ffion.”

“Yeah, but I wouldn’t have said it to any of them, ‘cause they wouldn’t have given me a reason to say it!” I retort, slamming my locker shut and twisting the padlock back into place. “You heard what I said to her, just fine. So you must have heard what she said to me, right? She basically called me a liar! She basically sided with Chris!”

Scott’s face falls. “I didn’t hear that bit, no,” he mumbles, “If I’d known, then… I might have stepped in. I wanted to step in… wanted to stop you saying all that stuff to her, but...” He shakes his head. “I don’t know if she’d be OK with that. It’s not exactly like we’re close, I mean.”

I raise my eyebrows again. “And you and I? We’re not close enough for you to wonder if, just maybe, I might have a reason for saying those things? Piss off, Scott. I don’t want to talk to you right now.”

“OK,” Scott says gently, “But you know where to find me if you do want to talk later, right?”

"If." Hauling on the straps of my backpack, I stalk off without another word, and stamp home--alone--through the woods.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Etta finally comes back to school the next day, after half the week off with her migraine. She’s tied her curls up in a lovely puff ponytail, hairline decorated with a turquoise band that matches her hearing aid. She waves me over as I approach the bus stop, and grins at me as I sit down next to her. “How are you doing?” she signs.

“Good,” I reply, hugging her. Then I pull away, so that we can read each other’s hands. “Are you feeling better?”

She nods, beaming. Aw, her face is actually like sunshine! Sparkly eyes and bright teeth. “So much better!” And then her eyes droop, and she leans forward a little. “Um… Are you sure you’re OK? After what happened?” Her brows arch.

“Of course I am, sweetie,” I sign, “Please don’t worry. I know it’s tricky to believe, but I’m fine. I promise.” I hug her again. “And I don’t think I ever thanked you for saving me. That was incredible. So… really… thank you, so much. I quite literally owe you my life.” My hands tremble and my eyes prickle. “Thank you,” I sign again.

But Etta takes my hands, and lowers them, so gently, so carefully, shaking her head. “You don’t need to thank me,” she replies, “You’d have done the same, and, anyway, it was the right thing to do. You’re one of my oldest friends. How could I do anything but try to save you?”

I swallow hard, and my throat hurts. I almost choke on the lump inside, and have to cough and blink hard to keep away my tears. I don’t know if I could have done the same. I don’t know how to do… whatever Etta did… CPR? I don’t know how to save a life. “Still, thank you,” I sign, nodding, “I’d have died without you.”

“Lena called the ambulance,” Etta points out, “You know that, right? And Soph ran after Chris. Tried to get him to come back. Char and Stef got blankets to keep you warm. It wasn’t just me. It was everyone. All your friends, Gordon, all your friends love you, and everyone who was there when it happened, everyone did everything they could to make sure you made it through. It wasn’t just me, Gordon. Everyone loves you.”

“Scott doesn’t love me,” I sign, “Scott thinks I’m an arsehole.” I pull up my knees and hug them to my chest, staring at my feet. I can’t look Etta in the eye.

She taps me on the shoulder. When I don’t look up, she doesn’t stop, just taps insistently until I give in, and meet her gaze. “You know that’s not true,” she signs, “Why would he think that?”

I shake my head. “You didn’t hear what he said yesterday.”

Etta snickers. “Well. Obviously.”

“Fuck, obviously you didn’t.” I smack myself in the forehead, giggling. And then I remember what she obviously didn’t hear, and sigh. “Yesterday, when we were by my locker… you should’ve seen how he looked at me. How he looked at me for how I spoke to Ffion.”

“How did you speak to Ffion?” Etta narrows her eyes.

I roll my eyes. “Doesn’t matter. Same way I would speak to anyone who took Chris’ side over mine.”

“She did what?!” shrieks Etta, “Fucking Hell! What the fuck is her problem!”

And then I realise that Etta has no idea about anything that’s happened since she dragged me out of the lake. For a moment when she first saw me, I think she probably didn’t even remember that she dragged me out of the lake. I squeeze my arms around my folded legs, and rest my chin on my knees for a moment, trying to gather my thoughts and work out what I’m gonna tell her.

“Kind of… went after Chris on Monday night,” I sign, wrinkling my nose, “As revenge… and to scare him out of doing anything else.”

Etta’s eyes bulge. ““Went after Chris”… how?”

I shake my head. “You don’t wanna know. I don’t really… want to think about. Too close to what he did to me.”

Her golden-brown skin turns a pallid grey. “And… did it scare him?”

“I thought it did,” I sign, “But then, yesterday evening, I got this. And now I’m fucking terrified.” taking my phone out of my pocket and finding the text, I pass it to her. “And I have no idea how to make it better, other than…” I trail off, drop my hands, and dig through my rucksack. Hammer’s in here somewhere, just… fallen out of… reach… Ugh. “Other than defending myself. And I think the rest of you should take steps as well.”

“Steps, like… going to the police?” Etta says. She’s voicing, hands occupied with clutching the phone as she squints at the text, reading it again and again. “‘Cause this is serious stuff, Gordon. It’s been serious stuff since… since the lake.”

“Yeah, I know,” I sign, gesturing to her to give my phone back. “But I can’t very well go to the police, can I? Not when “the police” is “my Mum”, and “my Mum” is “a dickhead”.”

Etta rolls her eyes. “She’s still your Mum, Gordon. She’ll take care of you. It’s her job at home, and it’s her job at work. Come on. You’re in a better position than most people. Have you told her at all? Like, not as Sergeant Benn, but… you know. Mum.”

I snort with laughter. “Have I told my Mum that my friends and I are all in danger because I tried to drown the guy who tried to drown me for being gay?” I drop my feet to the ground, and double over, cackling. “That’s a good one,” I sign, “Get yourself to Edinburgh right now.”

"I wasn't joking, Gordon," Etta persists, "You've got to tell your parents. What if something happens to you? What if Chris tries to kill you again, and this time, actually manages it? Do you really want that to be the first your parents hear of it? Your Mum, being called to a crime scene, only to realise, oh, God, she recognises that body?"

"Do you want to shut up right now, maybe?" I snap, glowering at her.

Etta blinks hard. "Yeah, sorry, yeah. Of course." She chews her lip. That was super insensitive of me. Sorry.“

I force myself to smile, even though it actually hurts my stomach a bit to do so. “It’s OK,” I sign, “I’ve got it covered. It’s OK. Chris isn’t gonna be able to hurt me. Seriously.” I pat the canvas of my bag. “If he even comes near me, I’ll beat the fucking shit out of him. It’s not gonna be my body, trust me.”

“Yeah, OK, that’s, um, not as reassuring as you obviously wanna think it is,” Etta signs, staring at my rucksack. “What have you even got in there?”

I tap my nose conspiratorially. “Just a little something to keep me safe! You don’t need to know any more than that!” I grin. What I really mean is that I’m not going to tell her any more than that. Not after Scott overreacted the way he did. Fucking Hell.

“If you say so,” Etta says, twitching her eyebrows. “Just don’t do anything stupid, will you? I’d rather not be the one picking up the pieces or, like…” She grimaces. “...sweeping the sticky stuff up off the floor.”

“Fuck off!” Laughing, I elbow her in the ribs, and she squeals. And then I grin at her. “I mean, if you’re so averse to clearing up the mess, then… just… don’t.”

“Not really my point,” Etta replies, but she’s grinning, too.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Scott barely speaks to me before school. That’s partly because I can’t find him, but it’s obvious that that’s because he’s making himself scarce. It’s not like I don’t see him crossing the quad. But it’s not like he returns my nod of greeting. Coldly ignores it, is what he does.

And, quite honestly, I think he only speaks to me in form time because it’d draw attention--that neither of us can afford--if he didn’t. “How was your evening?” he asks, smiling but speaking in a flat voice, “Get up to much?”

I nod. “Good, yeah,” I mumble, twiddling my thumbs over the pages of my journal. “Played some guitar. Read a bit of “The Luminaries”. Eleanor Catton. One of my favourites, actually. I should lend it to you once I’ve finished rereading it.”

It’s practically a grunt that comes out of Scott’s mouth. That stereotypical teenager noise, the one adults think we make instead of answering a question.

I cough into my fist. “How was your evening?”

Scott shrugs. “Nothing special. Went to Tim’s. Did some homework with him and Stef.” He bows his head over his homework diary, and starts crossing out entries with thick, heavy biro marks.

“Are you still angry with me?” I whisper, propping myself up on my elbows and leaning towards him. “Seriously?”

He doesn’t answer.

My voice cracks. “What do I have to do to convince you I’m sorry?”

“I don’t know,” Scott mutters, “Maybe if I had any reason to believe you’d changed your mind about… what was it? Caving someone’s head in with a hammer? Maybe, then, I’d believe you were sorry for what you did at the lake, or for bringing a hammer to school, or for saying all those horrible things to Ffion. Until then?” He tuts, and shakes his head. “Actions speak a lot louder than words, Gordon.”

Gordon. Not Gordy.

Cramp twists my stomach, and I reach for his sleeve. “I don’t want to do it, Scotty. I don’t want to be in this situation. It’s not like I relish the idea of going after someone with a hammer!” I hiss, casting my eyes around the room in case Chris is sitting near enough to overhear.

But he’s not here yet. And nor is Mr Mayes. We’re the only ones at our table, and there are only a handful of other students in the room. None of whom seem to be listening in.

Scott keeps staring at the blank whiteboard, eyes focussed on nothing.

“I’m scared, all right?” I whisper, pinching the fabric of his sleeve. “I’m really fucking scared, for all of us.” I swallow hard, eyes burning, hairs at the back of my neck twitching. “For you, for our friends, for myself… and I can’t get through this without you. Please don’t shut me out right now, Scott. No matter how angry you are with me, for whatever… stupid mistakes… I’m making… please don’t shut me out. If you shut me out, I can’t protect you.” The tears drip down my cheeks, searing my skin as my heart starts to race and my chest tightens. “And I can’t stand the thought of what might happen if I can’t protect you.”

He squeezes his eyes shut, breathing out slowly through pursed lips. His shoulders tremble slowly up and down, and he sighs. “I don’t need you to protect me,” he replies quietly, “And I don’t want you to protect yourself. Not in the way you’re suggesting. I want you to go to the teachers, and ask them to call the police. Let them sort it out properly, so that you can get on with your life.” He turns to look at me, and smiles, eyes full of tears. “So that you can get on with your safe, happy life. The one you deserve. And that’s not a life where you bring a hammer to school, and try to sort out a hate crime on your own.”

I've made him cry. I've made him cry. Scott Noon. I've made him cry. I've made the others cry, too, shut down half of Etta's brain and done God alone knows what to Soph's conscience. I squeeze my eyes shut. I don't want to admit it… but they're not the ones in the wrong here, none of them.

It's me. Just as much as it's Chris, it's me. I'm just as bad as him.

"Sorry," I whisper, "I'm so sorry." I go up onto my tiptoes and brush Scott's tears away with the pads of my thumbs.

"Hey, come here," Scott says, pulling me towards him and hugging me so tightly that my feet leave the floor. He holds me in his arms, the strong circle of his warm arms, for a long moment, and then lowers me back to the ground again. "Please. Promise me you'll go to the teachers at lunch. Or before. But don't leave school today without talking to them. I'm begging you."

I’m still clinging to him, head buried in his chest, whole body shaking. I don’t know how to let go.

“Gordy, are you OK?”

I nod. But I don’t speak, just stand there, shaking.

He wraps his arms around me again. “Hey, it’s OK. I can come with you to speak to them, if you want. I mean it when I say you don’t have to go through this on your own. You don’t. Any of it.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

On the way to Mrs Paulson’s office after the bell rings for lunch, I pull my rucksack over my shoulder and start digging through it.

“What are you looking for?” asks Scott, strolling along at my side, his hands in his jacket pockets.

“The hammer,” I mutter, scrabbling around the bottom of the bag, “I know it’s in here. I wanna hand it in, but...” I shake my head. “Can’t, for the life of me, get hold of it.”

I stop outside Mrs Paulson’s door and lean against the wall, holding the bag up on my leg as I brace my foot against the bricks behind me. “Fuck’s sake. I must have put it in the other pocket.” I unzip that, too, and rummage around it, grasping and grasping and… and… and my fingers close on nothing. There’s nowhere near enough space in this bag for me to be missing it. “It’s not here,” I croak, “Scotty,” I squeak, looking at him with wide eyes, “Scotty, I can’t find it.”

And he nods. “I know,” he says, “I took it away. Gave it to the CDT Department.”

“What the fuck?!” I yell, “Scotty, what the fuck were you thinking?”

He folds his arms. “This was yesterday, while you were changing for PE. I took it out of your bag, and put it in mine. And then I gave it to the CDT Department this morning, before school.”

“Why?!” Well, I now have fewer regrets about making him cry earlier. “Do you realise you could get us all killed? Like, what are you gonna tell Lena’s parents if Chris goes after her to get at me? And I can’t stop him? Do you really want that responsibility? Because that’s exactly the responsibility you’ve taken on, giving school my weapon instead of letting me keep it, so I’ve got it when I need it!”

“Shut up!” Scott hisses, grabbing my arm and pulling me back down the corridor, out of the doors and into the quad. “You’ve got to tell Mrs P, but screaming and shouting outside her door is not the way to do it! You can’t yell “fuck” in the corridor if you want the teachers on your side.”

“What do you care who’s on my side?” I snap, “You undermine everything I do!”

Scott sighs and sits down on the nearest bench. “Maybe I know more than you give me credit for,” he mutters, “And maybe I’m just trying to stop you getting into trouble. You say you want out of this situation?”

“Yeah!” I glower at him, arms folded so tightly I can barely breathe.

“Right, well...” Scott plucks a stray thread on the sleeve of his blazer. “The quickest way to do that is to go to the teachers as soon as possible, and, in the meantime, to make as little trouble for yourself as possible. Bringing a hammer to school? Not a good idea, Gordy. Think it over. What if… What if Etta had been attacked? And she brought a knife to school?”

I scoff. “That’s the stupidest suggestion you’ve ever made. Etta would never--”

“Right,” Scott says, raising his eyebrows. “And why’s that?”

“Because she’s not that stupid,” I mutter, chucking myself at the bench and flopping down like a thrown rag-doll.

Scott just stares at me and nods slowly. “OK, so… what makes you any different? What is it about you bringing a hammer to school that’s so much less stupid?”

Oh. I mean. He’s kind of got me there, not that I’m ever going to admit it. I say nothing, and stare across the quad.

Mrs Paulson strides out of the hall and towards the main building, scarves floating behind her like the wake of a ship. In her arms she cradles a stack of books, and she’s walking towards her office.

“Huh, that’s interesting,” I say, “There was no need to drag me away from her office at all.” I point her out to Scott. “Unless she can teleport or something, I’m gonna go out on a limb here and guess she wasn’t in there when we were waiting outside. Great work, manhandling me for no reason. Thanks!”

“Gordy. Be reasonable,” Scott replies, “I had no clue if she was gonna be in there or not. I mean, I thought probably not, but, like… I didn’t want to take any chances. Give her a minute to get back in, and then we’ll go and see her, yeah?”

I nod. “Fine. But I need to go to the loo first. I’ll be right with you.” I get up and walk off in the direction of the nearest toilets, but, as soon as I’m out of Scott’s sight, I run to the library and curl up on the floor with a smackerel of Oscar Wilde.

I’m not going to Mrs Paulson with Scott if he’s not going to respect my decisions. Fuck that sideways.

Chapter 13: Sanctuary: Ffion
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Disordered Eating (Food Insecurity).

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
The lights are off when I get home, and the house is cold and full of shadows. Damp hangs in the air like wet laundry, and I stumble through the darkness into the kitchen, to find my cardigan draped over the back of a chair. The floor's grubby underfoot. I should clean it.

Pulling my cardigan tighter around me, I make my way through to the living room and open the curtains and sit on the windowsill so that I'll have enough light to do my homework.

The sun's blazing outside, but there's rain due in tonight, I think. Said so on the radio, so… uh… might be in for a difficult one.

I get about halfway through my maths work before the coughing starts upstairs. Well. Guess it's better than doing nothing while I sit and wait like I always wait. Every evening is the same, except the rainy evenings, which are worse.

I put the kettle on, drop my scuffed shoes by the stairs, and run up to my parents' room. "Dad? Are you OK?"

He's sitting up in bed, reading his Bible, and he's stopped coughing, but his eyes are heavy, and his shoulders are rounded. The whole of him looks sore and tired, like it's even an effort to be propped up on his pillows. I guess it is.

"Ffion, sweetheart," he says with a smile, "I didn't hear you come in!"

"You might've been asleep, still," I say, going to his bedside and pressing the back of my hand against his forehead. He hasn't answered, so I ask again. "Are you OK?"

He nods, but immediately has to cover his mouth with his palm, hacking and wheezing by turns until the coughing dies down and he falls back against the pillows.

"You don't seem OK," I mumble, "Should I call someone? Should I call Mum?"

"No, no, don't bother her. She's got three interviews today. She…" He breaks off his sentence to cough again, lurching forward and hacking into his fist. "She doesn't need you pestering her, saying come home, Dad's sick."

So… he is sick then. Sicker than usual.

I chew my lip. "Are you going to be all right until she gets home?"

He nods. "Don't worry about me. Go and get on with whatever you were doing before you came up."

"Homework," I say, "And I was going to make some tea. Do you want a cup?"

"I think we've run out again," he whispers, shutting his eyes as he leans back against the pillows. "Ask your Mum if there's some spare change for you to run down to the shop, when she gets in."

“OK,” I say, even though I already know what the answer will be. The answer is nearly always the same, has been for most of a year.

Last month there was spare change for a box of tea, but I guess that's finished up. I go down to the kitchen and look in the teapot for bags I can reuse. And there are none, so I scout the room, and find a handful of them on the rim of the sink. With a grimace, I rinse them under the tap, and put them back in the pot.

When the tea finally brews, and I pour it into stained mugs, it splutters out of the spout a pale beige colour, and the diluted milk I add to it does nothing to help. I've been having to water it down for the last few days. A pint has to get all three of us through the week, and—no surprises—it never does.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The shower water is cold the next morning, and I stand shivering under the spray for as long as I can stand, raising against goose pimples to slather soap over my howling blue skin. I shudder into a towel and hug myself, shaking, all the way back to my room, so that I can dress in the same crumpled shirt and wrinkled skirt I wore to school yesterday.

Averting my eyes from the blisters as I put on my socks, I squeeze my sore feet into black shoes, and say goodbye to my parents, promising to pray for Dad's health, and for Mum to get the job she's interviewing for, before setting off for school.

It's a long, sweaty trudge through the woods, and my stomach is growling, and my head is spinning, by the time I get to Wooler Water Comp.

I find the nearest water fountain and gulp, gulp, gulp the cold until I'm full enough to dull down the emptiness in my belly. But all that does is replace it with a dragging ache all over my stomach. Leaning against a wall, I fiddle with my cross pendant until the sick feeling goes away.

Thank You, Lord.

Gordon Benn and his friends bustle down the corridor, laughing and shrieking at something he's said. The sudden noise sends black spots racing across my eyes, but I catch the last of it as I hurry in the opposite direction, towards my locker. The sick feeling's back.

"And then my sister was like, "I can't stop Gordon climbing out of his window, he's unstoppable!" and Mum was like, "Well, babysit him harder, yadder-yadder-yadder," so I went upstairs and climbed out of the window."

Charlotte rolls her eyes and snorts. "Sure, you did, Benn-tiroso."

"Oh, shut your trap, Char," Gordon mutters, digging her in the ribs, "This a hundred percent happened. Just 'cause you were too busy shagging Stef or whatever you do to each other to watch my house, it doesn't mean I didn't climb out of my window." He winks at her, and then at Stef, who sticks his tongue out.

Charlotte smacks him in the chest, but I don't catch what she says next, because the bell shrieks for morning registration.

Huh.

I had no idea Charlotte and Stefan were together. I kind of knew she liked him, I guess? A long time ago, in a sleepover game of Truth or Dare, she said so. But I haven't been to a sleepover with her for years. I had no idea she still liked him. In that way, at least. But I guess it shouldn't surprise me.

Frowning, I tug on the sleeves of my blazer and walk the rest of the way to my locker, peering into the shadows of it for my emergency cereal bar. The second half of it's right at the back, nestled in its folded wrapper. Right where I left it last week.

I break what's left in half, and nibble on the lump of gluey oats and raisins, shutting my eyes tightly so that I won't see the other half, still in its wrapper, before I can slam the door shut and stride off to the form room.

Crumbs of it stick in my teeth, and I want so badly to pick them out with my tongue, but I fight the urge down like I fight down the urge to ask my parents—yet again—why I'm not allowed to call my brothers at uni. The flavour keeps me going until I'm in registration… and by that time, the last bit of the bar is way out of reach, safe in my locker where I won't be able to pick at it until I really have to. Until some reiteration of this morning comes around.

Chris Davison is staring at me again.

I look away. I wish he wouldn't stare at me, especially not like that. Boys shouldn't look at girls like that. I twist the silver band around my ring finger, to remind myself of that as much as to remind him.

Whatever Gordon might have done to him, I can't let myself forget that Chris is a boy. And he's like any other boy. Only wants one thing. And I know I don't want, can't want that one thing. Good girls don't.

So I stare at the patterns in the wood of the desk, tracing them with my eyes until I feel his leave my face.

He sits across from me in class. Sometimes we talk about the work, or pass each other in the street. That's no reason for me to lead him on, or be led into…

I swallow hard.

Remember the girl who had to hand back her ring in front of the whole congregation, and—quite literally—hang her head in shame as she walked out of the church.

Remember all the other girls queuing up to get jabs, clutching forms signed by parents who were just fine with their daughters being vaccinated against an STI. Parents who were just fine with their daughters growing into the kinds of girls who would get them.

The kinds of girls who have to give their rings back. The kinds of girls who have no rings in the first place.

I lift my head, and my eyes find Charlotte, leaning on her elbows, grinning at Stef, curving lips slicked with glittering gloss, batting eyelashes so long with mascara that I can see the shadows they cast from here. Way over on the other side of the room.

The kind of girl I don't talk to anymore. The kind of girl I nod at, and walk away from, every time she tries to talk to me.

Because, if I talked to her, or let her talk to me… I might as well tell her that her behaviour’s good, that her behaviour’s respectable, that her behaviour’s… OK… I’d be as good as sending her to Hell… just like she--and all her friends--seem intent on doing, by hanging around Gordon, even though they know full well that he’s a--

A peal of raucous laughter explodes from the corner of the room, and I jerk my head up.

Gordon’s eyes are fixed on me, and he’s grinning widely as his hands flicker, Etta watching, Etta giggling, Etta looking at me right before she shakes her head and signs a reply.

Charlotte swats her arm. “Stop it, both of you. That’s mean.” She glances at me for half a moment, offering half a smile and mouthing a half-baked “sorry”.

I fold my arms and look at my desk again. I’m not the one she needs to say “sorry” to.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Dad’s asleep with his cannula in when I get home from school. As soon as I’m back downstairs from checking on him, I peel off my shoes and socks, flexing my sore toes and pressing down on the balls of my feet.

Then I go up to my room and sit down on my bed, hugging my schoolbag to my chest for a moment. Just a moment. Just a little moment to rest my eyes. Stop the house spinning. Then I’ll be fine. Just need a moment.

Mum’s still out, I guess. Her car wasn’t in the driveway when I walked up to the front door, and the only noise in the house is from my parents’ room.

The quiet, persistent hiss of the tanks. More constant than a heartbeat. More reliable and reassuring, like the echoes of a pastor’s voice off stone arches.

Wandering over to my window into the street, I kneel down and lean on the sill.

Outside, Gordon, Charlotte and Loretta stroll up the High Street, arm in arm in a great long chain. Gordon is dancing along to a song that Charlotte’s singing at the top of her voice, and Loretta’s laughing at them both. Even as they career into the top of Chase Valley Road, I can hear what Charlotte’s singing: “Can we fast-forward to “go down on me”?” and I shudder. To sing--to scream--that in the middle of the street… There’s a girl with no shame, and a boy with no morals… and a girl--a poor girl--with no idea of the vile turpitude spewing from her friends’ mouths.

Charlotte and I used to dance around her room to it when it first came out. “New Perspective”. Panic! at the Disco. We had no idea what it meant. Or I didn’t. Or I didn’t until Mum heard me singing it in the kitchen, and hit me. After that, I kind of figured out it must be something bad. But she never did tell me what.

At least Loretta doesn’t have to hear that awful song. I hope God takes that into account. It’s not her fault. She misses a lot. She doesn’t know who her friends are, what they’re saying, what they’re doing. She misses so much. She probably doesn’t even know Gordon’s gay.

I pull the curtains shut and open my Bible, sitting on the floor, legs folded, reading Ruth by the fine slip of light leaking in between the curtains and the windowsill.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The smell of freshly-brewed tea and coffee hits me as soon as I walk into Prudhoe Baptist Church on Sunday morning. Sunlight trickles in through the stained-glass windows, warming bright patches on every pew. Blue and pink and yellow and green. God’s paintbox.

“Ah, young Missy McDade!” exclaims Pastor Mayes, smiling at me as he adjusts the microphone at the pulpit, “You’re looking well, my dear!”

I bow my head. “Thank you, Pastor Mayes,” I say, trying to strike a balance between a reverent mumble and a voice that he can hear.

You do have to speak up a bit for Pastor Mayes. He’s a good age, I think, though it’s hard to see it in his face. Very few wrinkles. Very few grey hairs. But that’s only to be expected for a man whose son’s old enough to be my teacher.

“Help yourself to a cup of tea while we set things up,” he says, nodding to the tables at the back of the church, “We’re running a little late, I’m afraid!” He chuckles, still fighting with the microphone stand.

“Oh! Thank you!” I blurt, mouth immediately watering at the thought of tea made from new leaves, with milk that hasn’t been watered down. Proper tea! It’s been a whole week since I last had proper tea. I press my lips together, turn around and take my first step towards the urns of hot water and the stacks of cups and the pods of milk and--

“Where do you think you’re going?” hisses my mother, grabbing my wrist to stop me passing, “You were not brought up to be greedy, Ffion!” Her eyes are hard and her brow is ferocious, and I crane my neck over my shoulder, desperate to catch Pastor Mayes’ eye, but he’s turned around, setting up the hymn boards.

All I can do is return my eyes to Mum’s face, and whisper, “But, Mum, Pastor Mayes said--”

“Don’t answer me back!” she snaps, “Don’t you dare! Not in the Lord’s house, of all places!” She drops my wrist, nods, and puts on a sweet smile. “Go and take your Dad to his pew.”

“Yes, Mum,” I stammer, taking hold of the push-handles on Dad’s wheelchair and manoeuvering him into the front row.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

It’s the thanksgivings I like the best, when people from the congregation go up to the pulpit, one at a time, and ask us all to join them in thanking God for having answered certain prayers during the week.

This Sunday, it’s Mum’s turn to go up, and, smiling, she squeezes my hand, and my Dad’s hand, before she does.

She clears her throat and leans into the microphone. “I’d like to share a little story with you all,” she says, her shaky voice echoing throughout the church. She blinks, as though a bright light is shining into her eyes. “Um… So… This week, I was offered a job interview. First thing in the morning, in Newcastle. Friday.” She smiles, and her eyes sparkle with the beginnings of tears. “So I woke up early, made sure I wore my best clothes, did my hair properly.” She nods. “And I was just pulling out of the driveway, ready to go, making good time… when a cat ran out in front of me. And--thank the Lord--I did manage to stop, but, when I tried to move again...” She shakes her head. “The car wouldn’t start! And I knew I wouldn’t have time--” (“--or money,” I think to myself) “--to call someone to come and fix it. And, of course, I couldn’t afford to miss my interview, so what could I do?” She lifts her hands, palms up, as if she’s holding the question on a tray. “What could I do but pray the car would cooperate, and start working again?”

There are murmurs of assent throughout the congregation, mine among them. Buses come to Chase Valley so infrequently, an, in any case… there’s a reason I walk to school every day: I don’t have a bus pass. And there’s a reason for that, too. I bite the scarred inside of my cheek as I listen to her tell the rest of the story. The same story she told me when I got home from school on Friday.

"I gave myself five minutes to pray, five minutes before I went back into the house and started looking through the newspaper for different jobs instead. Five minutes, and then I tried again, and would you believe it? I'm sure you would: the car started right back up again, and I made it to my interview just in time!" She claps her hands, and then clasps them together. "So, if you'd all like to join me in thanking God for His grace…"

The whole congregation booms, "Thank you, Lord, our God, for Your grace," as Mum's voice bounces around the room.

I mumble it, knowing the rest of the story all too well. It might be the story Mum told me on Friday, but it's also the story she told me on Monday, and three times last week, and at least once a week, every week last month.

She didn't get the job. She came home from that interview, and, true to her word, started circling ads in the "Wanted" section. And she'd been at the library in Prudhoe for a few hours before that, trawling the internet for jobs. Just like she always is, except when she's at the library in Wooler, doing exactly the same thing.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I can't stand their questions today. The other parishioners, gathered around the tables at the back of the church, they gave so many questions. "Where are you going after GCSE? Have you got a special someone? Have you started looking at universities yet?"

As if I have a single second spare each day to think about what I'm doing, the year after next. As if I'm the kind of girl who's have a "special someone". As if I'll ever be able to afford to go to university! My brothers are just about managing it on their own… I think… I guess.

But I'm sure they're working themselves to death with jobs beside their studies. It's the only way I can imagine them able to keep roofs over their heads. But if I do that, if I go away to study…That leaves nobody to look after Dad while Mum goes out to work… or keeps looking for jobs.

He's not going to get better from this. He's only going to get worse, more and more ill, until… one day… I will be thanking God for creating Heaven, and comforting Mum by reminding her that He did.

Right now… being at school in Wooler… almost an hour away through the woods… it's hard enough. Our school has no attached Sixth Form. I'll have to go to one or the college's further afield, be further away, even less able to rush home if he needs help. So how could I go anywhere after GCSE? He'll need full time care by then, if… if he even…

As soon as I have the chance, I swipe a biscuit from the table nearest me, and hurry out of the church, head bowed, eyes downcast, walking as quickly and as quietly as I can.

And nobody sees me.

Chapter 14: Scripture: Lena
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Homophobia.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
Sophie’s camera whirrs as the photo slides out, and she hands me the print, grinning as she runs up the grassy slope to stand beside me.

The ink cures, and my figure fades into focus, bright blue dress fluttering in front of the yellow-brick walls of Prudhoe Castle, gold hair blowing loose and long in the breeze. Sunlight bounces--bright spots of beaming white--off the lenses of my glasses. Stars.

“Look at you! Sophie whispers, wrapping her arm around my waist and kissing my cheek, “Look at you, being beautiful!”

“Look at you!” I exclaim, kissing her right back, and pulling the camera gently out of her hand, giving her the photo in its place. She tucks it into the pocket of her handbag, along with the rest of the pictures we took, wandering the woods just outside the town.

Hands intertwined. Dappled sunlight on our faces. Our smiles as we kissed under the arching branches of swaying silver birches. Sophie, sitting on the root-veined floor, back against the bark of a slim tree, arms wrapped around her drawn-up knees as she smiles at the camera. Smiles at me.

Long eyelashes framing hooded brown eyes, sharp black wings gracing her eyelids, flecks of gold eyeshadow straying onto her cheekbones, lighting up her freckles.

“Do you know how beautiful you are?” I hold the camera up in front of us, lens focussed on our faces, as I rest my head on top of hers, and press down the capture-button. The camera feeds out another white rectangle, and I kiss Sophie again as I lower the camera and pass it back to her. “You’re incredible.”

Something between a sigh and a gasp jumps from Sophie’s lips as they curve into a smile. She pulls out the photo and squints at it as it develops to show us together, my chin nestled on the crown of her head, her golden-brown skin radiant in the sun, mine glowing luminous and white, like chalk, eyes screwed shut against the midday light, hair tangled in hair twined through hair.

“Let’s go into town,” she says, tucking the camera and the photo into her bag, and taking my hand, threading her fingers through mine.

We wander down towards the top of the High Street, and take a seat on a bench by a fountain and a flowerbed. Petunias are in bloom, bright bursts of purple among spreads of yellow pansies and white alyssum. The water sparkles in the sunlight, and I lean down to rest my head on Sophie’s shoulder as she puts her arm around me.

She can do that here.

Here, nobody knows us. Here, we’re not Lena Szczepanski and Sophie Wainwright, we’re not in Chase Valley, and we’re not surrounded by cousins and siblings and great-aunts and grandparents and nephews. Here, nobody recognises either of us. Here, we’re just two more anonymous faces, just two more anonymous girls.

Kissing.

We know nobody, and nobody knows us. A whole town smudges into watercolour paint on wet paper. Voices of people passing by swirl and blur into white noise, no one distinct from the next. But one stands out.

“What the fuck?!”

Sophie and I pull apart, our quiet closeness irreparably-torn.

My breath catches hard in my throat, choking me as I jerk my head round and see Ffion McDade, standing right there in front of us, the fountain behind her.

“Whatever you think you saw,” Sophie blurts, “Whatever you think you saw, was not what it looked like.”

I clear my throat, and wipe my mouth on my wrist. Traces of vanilla lip-balm grease my skin. Taking deep breaths, I pinch my crucifix, and look Ffion right in the eye. “What brings you to Prudhoe?” I ask.

“Church,” Ffion replies, her voice high and haughty, “And don’t think you can get out of this by changing the subject!” She sniffs loudly. “You were kissing! You two! You’re gay!” She practically spits the word.

And, just as if she’s spat in my face, I flinch. It’s enough. There’s no use denying it now, not with tears springing to my eyes, not now that Ffion can see just how hard that word has hit me.

But Sophie springs to her feet, and marches right up to Ffion, so that they’re standing so close they must be able to hear each other’s heartbeats, feel the summer heat radiating off each other’s faces. “You don’t tell anyone,” she hisses, “You don’t say a word, you don’t even hint at it, or it’ll be the worst for you.”

Ffion just blinks. Blinks, and says, “If you think I’m going to keep this a secret, you’ve got another thing coming. You’re sinning, and you know it. And you’re ashamed, as well you should be. You’re Catholic, as well!” She curls her lip, and narrows her eyes. “Doesn’t it stand to reason that you’d tell your priest?”

The last little space remaining in my throat slams shut, and my heart races as I realise, with cold spreading through my veins, that she’s right. I’m doing a bad thing, I’m sinning, by keeping this from Father Matthew. I might as well be trying to hide from God, just like I’m hiding from everyone else. From Chris. Treating God like Chris. Treating Chris like God. My stomach churns. But I don’t get a chance to speak before Sophie does.

“Don’t tell me how to practice my religion!” she snaps at Ffion, “You have no idea what it’s like to be Catholic, what it’s like to be Queer, what it’s like to be both!” She draws herself up to her full height, only an inch or so less than Ffion’s. “So don’t you dare presume to tell me what I should and shouldn’t be telling Father Matthew! Confession is a sacrament in the Catholic church!” Her voice calms, and she raises her eyebrows just a little. She’s genuinely asking, now. “You’re a Baptist, right? How does Confession work for you?”

Ffion shakes her head. “We don’t have it,” she mumbles, looking at the ground.

Triumphant, Sophie thrusts her chin forward. “Well, then,” she says, folding her arms, “It’s none of your business, then, is it? So I’d appreciate it if you didn’t make assumptions about Lena, or me, or our faith. We’re not sinning.”

“Leviticus!” Ffion exclaims, “Leviticus 18:something! It forbids homosexuality, condemns it! It’s a sin! The Bible says so.”

Sophie sighs and pinches the bridge of her nose, before pushing her glasses up over the bridge of her little nose. “You’re thinking of Leviticus 18:22, and I know why you think it means that, but it doesn’t. Will you give me your hand?”

Ffion scowls at her and shoves her hands defiantly into the pockets of her cardigan. “You’re not going to corrupt me. I’m much smarter than that.” She darts her eyes at me for a brief, cold moment, and then turns her gaze back to Sophie. “So don’t even try. I’m a good Christian, unlike you and Lena, apparently.”

“I don’t want to hold your grubby little hand,” Sophie replies, rolling her eyes as she pulls a felt-tip pen out from behind her ear, “I want to write down a URL for you. And I don’t have any paper on me.”

“Don’t take that attitude,” Ffion snaps, “Not with me. Not when I’ve seen you two together. Not when you two have been together. You don’t get to blame me for thinking you wanted to--”

Sophie tuts loudly, but she nods. “OK, yeah, fine. I see where you’re coming from. Have you got something for me to write on? A notebook or--”

Ffion shakes her head. “Sorry.” She holds out her hand. “What’s the URL for, first? I don’t want you writing something on me that might be… you know… dodgy.” She grimaces, chewing her lip. “I’m here with my parents. But they’re still in the church.”

My heart rate slows, and dizziness rocks my head for a moment before I realise what she’s doing. She wants to learn. She wants to reassure us that we’re safe. And there’s something in her eyes that’s more… surprised… than angry. Maybe it’s in my eyes, too. I think I’m even starting to see it in Sophie’s eyes.

“It’s a Bible study website,” Sophie explains, turning Ffion’s hand over, so that her palm’s facing up, “Most of it focuses on verses like Leviticus 18:22, verses that get misinterpreted--or twisted on purpose--into condemnations of… well, of the LGBT Community. It explains Scripture as it was originally meant to be understood, because a lot’s changed in translation… and in two thousand years.”

Ffion smiles. “Go on, then,” she says softly, pulling up the sleeve of her cardigan, “But write it on my arm, won’t you? So that it won’t rub off… and so that I can hide it from my Mum and Dad.”

“Of course,” Sophie says, nodding as she uncaps the pen and poises the nib over the inside of Ffion’s forearm. “Is here OK?”

“Mm-hmm.” She and I both watch Sophie as she writes on Ffion’s skin, felt-tip brushing against fine brunette hair until purple ink spells out, “HopeRemains.webs.com”.

She’s still smiling as she admires the letters on her arm. “You’ve got really nice handwriting,” she says, touching Sophie’s shoulder. “Thank you,” she says, “Really. I’m always looking for more to learn.”

And then she turns to me, and steps a little closer, holding out her hand to touch my shoulder as well. “And don’t worry,” she adds, “I won’t tell anyone. That’s up to you. That’s your...” She shakes her head. “I don’t know the word. Choice, like? To tell people when you’re ready.”

I stand up, legs trembling as I pick at a pimple on my arm. “You’re OK with it?”

Ffion furrows her brow, and looks at her hand on my arm. “I don’t know,” she mumbles, “I don’t know how I feel about anything anymore.” She blinks hard, then drops her hand from my arm, nods at me and Sophie, and then whispers, “I’ve got to be getting back. They’ll wonder where I am.”

And then she turns on her heel. And then she runs.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Sophie squeezes my hand one last time before we step into the bus back to Chase Valley. She does it as the bus pulls up to the stop at the bottom of Prudhoe High Street, and she chews her lip, wide-eyed, as she does it.

I don't ask her to kiss me. I know she can't. The sweet, lovely anonymity we enjoyed all afternoon in Prudhoe has come to an end with a hiss of hydraulics as the doors swing open. Anyone could be on that bus. Anyone could see. And hand-holding can be explained—maybe she's passing me something—but a kiss can't. Somehow I don't think anyone would believe I was adding her something with my tongue, unless it was drugs. Which wouldn't be better than the truth. At least, it probably wouldn't.

We stagger down the aisle as the bus moves off, swaying our way to the backmost seats, and ducking into the corner, taking up as little space—to draw as little attention—as possible.

Just because nobody's on the bus right now, it doesn't mean we're safe. This route goes through Wooler. Past school. Past our classmates' homes.

And finally back through the hills to Chase Valley, a handful of Monopoly houses scattered around a lake, interspersed with trees like you might find in one of those huge, overcomplicated train sets. Archie used to have one under his bed.

Sophie shifts into the next seat, so that there's an empty space between us. She angles her phone towards me, so that I can see the screen, and types, "Do you think Ffion's as good as her word?"

I just look at her. I don't know what to say. I want to believe the best of her, I really do, but she was so quick to think Gordon was lying about what Chris did, that some part of me wonders if she might have been projecting. Behaving in a certain way—habitually lying, in this case—and aging that everyone else does the same. The muscles across the top of my back tense up, and I twitch my shoulders in the hope it'll help.

But it doesn't. And that feeling of a thread being pulled tight, so tight it could break at any second, follows me all the way back home.

Even after Sophie and I say goodbye outside our houses, that feeling stays, clinging to my back like a sweat-soaked shirt, and I have to take my second shower of the day, just to take the worst of it away.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I watch Chris perhaps a little too closely the next day at school, eyes constantly on him for any change in his expression, any times he looks at Ffion or speaks to her. If she tells him, I need to know immediately. Need to warn Soph. Scott.

If it gets out that Sophie and I are together… there are going to be questions about whether Scott and I were really together. And I don’t think Chris will believe we were. And that’ll raise questions about Scott as well.

Gordon nudges me, and I flinch hard.

“Are you OK?” he says, pulling his arm away gingerly, and staring at me with huge eyes.

I nod, muttering, "Fine," before pulling my homework diary out of my bag and starting to doodle flowers across the back cover. We are not supposed to doodle on our homework diaries, and usually I don't, but I'm not sure it counts if the doodles are for someone else. In this case, doodled flowers are the closest I can get to posies for Sophie.

"You don't sound fine," Gordon says, needling my arm with the point of his elbow and wiggling his head from side to side. "Are you sure you're OK?"

I roll my eyes, and bend my head lower over the page, not answering. Gripping my pen more tightly, and pressing a good deal harder, I carve part of Mary's Prayer into the cover as well, "Blessed art Thou amongst women." Then I can say the flowers are offerings—which I guess, in a way, they are, just not only for the Virgin Mary—if anyone asks.

Leaning over my shoulder to peer at the drawings, Gordon tuts, and chuckles. "Oh, right. Smackerel of art. I'll leave you to it before it turns into porn."

"Shut up!" I snap, swatting him in the chest with the back of my hand.

"I'm sorry," Gordon says sweetly, "I thought you were Catholic. Or is it some other denomination that likes to draw men, clad only in loincloths, being shot with a hundred arrows? 'Cause, no offense, but that's got a lot in common with a lot of snuff."

Bastard.

"If you're talking about St Sebastian, that's how he died," I retort, "So it would be nice if you could show a little respect. Even if it's just by closing your mouth."

Gordon presses his lips together and hums a string of expressive—but mercifully unintelligible—syllables, before crossing himself clumsily—and wrongly—and grinning at me with all his teeth.

Again, bastard, not that I'm rude enough to call him that out loud to his face. He needs a bit of a break right now. I resolve to rant about it to Soph or Tim—or both—later on.

I stick the cap back on my pen, and flick through my homework diary again, before finally slamming it shut and shoving it back in my bag.

Gordon sucks air through his teeth. “Sorry,” he mumbles, “Are you OK?”

I nod sharply. “Fine,” I mutter, “Just not really in the mood to talk right now.”

Chapter 15: Tongues: Etta
Chapter Text
“Aren’t you coming into the water?” I call, waving my arms at the figure on the bank. I’m something like ten metres away from the shoreline, treading water in the lake, kicking the depths under my feet. “Timble!”

Tim looks up from his Bible, grins, and says something I can’t catch. I look to Char to interpret it. “Let me just finish this chapter first.”

Char wiggles her eyebrows, and winks as she signs, “Let him finish his Bible journaling first before you get your horn on, Miss Carter Jones!”

I smack her so hard on the arm that my palm leaves a bright red mark on her lake-wet skin.

She just bounces with laughter, and swats me back. “Ooh, look at you, pretending you’re not in love with him!” She swims a little closer, and wiggles her shoulders. “You know what they say about lakes.”

“Uh...” I shake my head slowly. “Not sure I do.”

She grins. “Ah, well...” Char furrows her brow. “...Nor do I.” But then she flashes her teeth, cups her hands around her mouth, and pitches herself towards the beach.

Tim looks up again, shutting his Bible and shaking his head, grinning, as he gets to his feet and splashes into the lake.

“Ooh, see, he’s coming over,” Char signs, nudging me in the ribs, “Putting away his Jesus, just to spend time with you.”

I narrow my eyes. “Don’t be rude. How’d you like it if I said grubby things about you and Stef?”

“That’s different,” Char says.

“How so?”

"Because Stef and I are actually together!" Char replies, giggling, "Have been for a little while! Short of stuff that's actually illegal, I'm not sure you could say we're doing anything together that you could describe as "grubby"!"

Ah, well, now it's my turn to take Char's love life and have a little fun, teasing her about it. Not that she's teasing me about my actual love life, just the one she apparently thinks I should have.

I widen my eyes and grin. "And what illegal things are you doing together?" I sign, kicking the water underneath me so that I can stay afloat.

Char just winks, and signs, "Sex."

What? What? "What?!" I exclaim, sinking in half a second, far enough down that my chin hits the water for a moment. And then I remember I'm far out in the lake, and start treading water again.

Char bursts out laughing. "Only a couple of times!" She pats me on the shoulder. "Aw, the look on your face! You look absolutely scandalised!" She mimicks my expression for me, eyes huge, jaw dropping. She signs "flabbergasted" for good measure.

"I am absolutely scandalised!" I retort, "You're only fifteen!"

"I did warn you it was illegal," Char replies, "But, like, only technically, and only for another few months, like…" She counts them off on her fingers. "Five more, until Stef's sixteen, and about two weeks after that, I'll be sixteen. At this point, it's not really a big deal. You know the drop in at school, where you can go for contraception and STD testing?"

Uh… I don't have to shake my head for her to realise I don't. I think she gets it from my squint and drawn-out silence.

"Yeah, you do!" she signs, "It's in the office we went to, for our HPV jabs, near the medical room. Where they have all the posters. You know it, right?"

I frown a little, but nod slowly. It's a vaguely familiar room, but only vaguely, which, uh… stands to some reason.

Bright lights, I remember those, bright lights, and then black patches flashing on and off in front of my eyes, and then a short, sharp pain in my arm… and then someone crouching over me as I came to on the floor, my blazer rolled up and tucked under my head.

I’m still not sure if it was the lights or the needle. About the only thing I’m sure of is the wicked migraine I had for the next two days, and how the springs on the bottom of Angie’s bunk circled slowly above me, as I drifted in and out of a nauseous sleep.

“Well, the drop in, it’s in that room, every Friday at lunchtime, and they’re pretty chill about it, you know? They’re like, “OK, you probably shouldn’t do this just yet, but if you’re both ready, and you both want to, with each other, this is how to make it safer.”” She mimes a long drag on a cigarette, and blows imaginary smoke into the sky.

“They smoke?” I sign, eyes bulging, “At school?!”

Char snorts with laughter. “No, darling, of course not. I was just being illustrious. Sophisticated.” She winks. “And just a little bit dramatic. But, yeah, anyway, yeah… If you’re thinking about getting a little bit saucy with Tim… or anyone else, for that matter--although, sadly for you, I’m taken--that’s where to go.”

I squint at her. “I’m not thinking about that,” I reply slowly, “Are you really? You’re not kidding?”

She shakes her head, giggling softly, long-lashed eyes fluttering gently closed.

Tim splashes to a halt next to us, and treads water as he grins. “How are you?” he signs.

I nod. “Good, thanks, how are you?”

“Good, yeah!” Tim replies, smiling at me before turning his head to stare at Char, who’s pushing herself backwards in the water, limbs twitching like long tendrils of algae. “Oh, you’re not going already, are you?” He looks crestfallen, drooping eyes and drooping brows, mouth open just slightly, and just slightly turned down at the corners.

Char shakes her head, and winks at me. “Just giving you two some privacy,” she replies, speaking as she signs, until she stops voicing, and signs just to me. “I’m not so into voyeurism, but you two have fun!” She pauses, giggles again, and then adds, “But not too much, you cheeky knaves.” She swims away.

And Tim’s back to watching her go, brows knitted, eyes lightly narrowed in bemusement. “What was she saying?” he asks me, turning back to look at me, so that I can read his lips.

Well, I guess that’s one good thing about the limits of his BSL. If you only know a few words, you’re not going to understand more than a few things Char says, and, as anyone who knows Char will know, understanding even a little of her patter is usually far more than enough.

My heartbeat slows a little, but not much. Not enough to calm the red patches boiling under my cheekbones.

I shake my head. “Just… um… making plans to meet later on. She’s got a date with Stef this evening, just the two of ‘em.” I crane my neck, and squint at Char and Stef, currently crushing each other with cuddles, out in the middle of the lake. I turn back to Tim, and grimace. “But she wants to see me later on, to fill me in on the gossip.”

“That’s a funny face you’re pulling,” Tim says, “You look like you’ve sat on something pointy.”

“Oh, yeah… yeah… I just…” I pinch the bridge of my nose, and shudder through my whole body. “I just learned something a little bit horrifying about her and Stef. And their relationship.” I cough. “Did you know there was an office at school, where you can go to get, like… condoms? And advice?”

Tim’s eyes widen, and he splutters a laugh. “I didn’t, no… Um… wow.” He chuckles, and looks over my shoulder, probably at Char and Stef. Or maybe he’s just looking for a way to feel about this new bit of information. Makes two of us. “That’s, um…” He nods. “That’s good. Sensible.” He swallows so hard that I see his Adam’s apple jerk in his throat, much heavier-looking than usual. “Wow. Is that… uh… what you two were talking about before I came over?”

I press my lips together and squeeze my eyes shut. I nod. "Char's a one, I'll give her that." Now I giggle, and rub my eyes with the heels of my hands, run my fingers over my pulled-flat curls. Puff ponytails are fun. But nothing helps to reduce the red in my cheeks.

Tim taps my shoulder. "Are you blushing?" he says, grinning, "Because of what Char said?"

I hide my face with my hands, and do my best quiet shriek. "No!"

He laughs, and claps me on the back, pulling me towards him so that we can hug.

Our skin together, soggy against soggy, makes me feel the way a frog must. I can't help it. I start laughing, too, and hug him back for a moment, before it all gets too… too much… and I pull away, shaking my head.

"You OK?" Tim says, keeping his hands on my shoulders and holding me at arm's length, peering at me.

"I'm fine," I mumble, "Just… weird hugging you without a shirt on."

Tim smacks his palm against his forehead. "Oh, gosh, yes, of course. Sorry. I didn't think."

I shake my head. "It's OK, seriously," I assure him, "Just a bit… strange? I don't know. Wet skin." I wrinkle my nose. "Feels weird."

"OK," Tim says, "Um… do you wanna swim back to shore? Go and get coffee or something?" He grins. "I'll put a shirt on, I promise."

"Sure," I say, and we strike back to the beach together.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Char bumps against my shoulder the next morning at school. "So…" she signs, grinning slyly, "I saw you and Timberley-Bimberley sloping off together. Is there, uh…” She winks. “Any scandal you’d like to share?”

Shrugging, I half-grin. "No. You know me." I fish my PE kit out of my locker and shut the door, twisting the lock into place. "There's never an ounce of scandal."

"Oh, sweetie, that's dreadful news," Char replies, "I'm so sorry."

I squint at her. "You're having a laugh, right?"

Char giggles. "A little bit, yeah, if I'm being honest. Although, since I’m being honest, I feel I really should tell you—” She puts her hand on her heart and gazes wistfully over my shoulder, sighing with wide, wide eyes, “—I’m a little bit disappointed. I was craving a sordid story to light up my day.”

Slinging my PE bag over my shoulder, I grin, and knock Char’s arm with my own. “You don’t need me to write a sordid story for you.” I wink. “You’ve got plenty of sordid stories of your own, you and Stef.” A little wiggle of my eyebrows, and there’s that unsettling grin—and all those teeth—spreading across her face like a rumour through a crowd.

“Oh, so many,” she replies, and that grin isn’t going away, and it isn’t getting easier to look at, and I’m glad when we go up the stairs to our form-room, because it gives me an excuse to look away, look away, look away!

I pull back my chair and kick my PE bag under my table as I sit down with Char and Gordon. He’s scribbling something in his diary—at least, I think it’s his diary—and she’s texting someone, head bent over her phone, so I have nobody to talk to for the next few minutes. I pass the time by taking my hair out of its puff and shaking it out, running my fingers through the soft curls and wiggling my roots so that my hair’s plump and lush.

The door swings open, and Tim, Scott and Lena sidle into the form-room, hands deep in their blazer pockets. They’re all wearing sunglasses, and walking in slow-motion. Dramatic, much? (Dramatic, very much.)

I nudge Gordon, get him to look up, and point to the new arrivals with a grin.

He snorts with laughter, and grabs Scott’s arm as he glides past, saying something I don’t catch.

Chuckling, Scott ruffles Gordon’s hair until it all sticks up, like Gordon’s lost an argument with the back end of a jet engine, and says something back. It looks like, “Wanted you to be the audience for once.”

I squint at Char. “What are they saying?” I sign.

Char grins. “Oh, they’re just agreeing that Tim looks incredibly sexy, and you should definitely sext him.”

“No, they’re not,” I reply, scowling at her, then stealing a glance at Gordon—out of the corner of my eye—to check that he’s not paying attention. Which he’s not. Because… Scott.

As Lena goes to her table and sits down with Stef, the two of them waiting for Scott, Tim pulls off his sunglasses and blinks hard, screwing up his eyes as he comes to stand next to me.

“Heya,” he signs, “How are you doing?”

I nod, and smile, twisting around in my chair so that I can have a proper conversation with him. “Good, yeah. Char’s horrified me several times already this morning, so, uh…”

“Normal day, then,” Tim says. He pauses. Shuts his eyes for a moment, then opens them slightly, and slowly signs, “Do you want to do coffee again sometime? This evening, maybe?”

“Yeah, that’d be lovely,” I reply, beaming at him as I fish my phone out of my pocket, “Have you got my number? We can text and arrange when we…” I unlock it, and go to my contacts.

Tim smiles. “Sure,” he signs, “Let me check.”

“A normal day.” It felt right when Tim said it, so right that I might have said it myself, if he hadn’t, but… oh, God… that feeling goes away quite abruptly in the middle of Maths.

Chapter 16: Crucifixion: Lena
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Homophobia / Discussion of Drowning / Discussion of Assault / Discussion of Hate Crime.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
It’s not Mr Mayes’ fault. Truly, if anyone ever tries to tell me it is, I think I’ll hit them. He’s a teacher. Sometimes he has to go out of the classroom, leave us for a few minutes, while he goes to the office to pick up photocopies, or a runner brings and urgent message.

Today, it’s photocopies, photocopies of an angle bisection, perfectly-drawn by Gordon. So good—when everyone else’s is so… “bad” doesn’t cover it, and, in my case, nor does “absysmal”—that Mr Mayes has taken Gordon’s sheet to the printing office, so that the rest of us can stick duplicates into our Maths books.

It happens fairly often in Maths, actually, that Gordon does something beautifully neatly, or understands a topic with no trouble at all. It might be why he gets away with pulling out the centre pages and writing poetry on them, poetry and songs and little notes to all of us. It’s explicitly forbidden to tear pages out of your exercise books without permission from a teacher—it says so in our homework diaries—but Mr Mayes never complains when Gordon does. I guess, since the rest of his book’s immaculate, and he works fast enough and well enough to have time for poetry and so on, even after the extension tasks… Mr Mayes is probably just glad he doesn’t cause much trouble.

Angel of the North incident aside. But, to be fair, that was Science, not Maths.

Gordon gets away with very little in Science since we last dissected hearts. Part of a sheep’s aorta ended up in my pencil-case, and another got squashed between two pages of Char’s exercise book.

Yes, she did shriek. Yes, she did kick Gordon quite hard up the arse. No, he did not need surgery to sew his arse back together, but it was a very close call, and I think that might be why Gordon’s an Atheist, now.

It might also be why Gordon gets away with so much in his Maths book. Mr Mayes probably feels at least a little bit bad for him. It’s got to come to the surface somewhere.

But that wasn’t Mr Mayes’ fault. And nor is what happens in Maths today.

Chris gives it something like ten seconds after Mr Mayes leaves the classroom to start drumming his hands on the table, making a polyrhythm as he starts to… well, it’s not quite beatboxing. Maybe people who don’t know what he did to Gordon might think it’s beatboxing.

Everyone else would know—as we all know—that it would be better-described as “mock-drowning to the beat".

Mixed in among the "bop" and the "chicka" are coughs and splutters, retches and choking yelps. Even from across the classroom I can see the effect it's having on Gordon—hunched shoulders, eyes squeezed shut, knuckles white on clenched fists—and I know he's remembering what happened. What Chris did. To him.

I fold my arms tightly and dig my fingertips into my biceps, breathing as slowly and as steadily as I can. What can I say to make Chris stop? Will he even listen? I don't know him anymore, if I ever did; all I know is that I've lost his trust. Which would have been the perfect lever right now.

So that was sensible of me, wasn't it? Making myself into bait. Great job, Sophie. Helping so many people. So what can I do now? To help, and help properly?

I bite my lip.

I glance at Ffion next to me. She's staring at Chris with her eyebrows creased in the middle, her mouth slightly open, her top lip curling, eyes hard and questioning.

"Chris, shut the fuck up," Lena says, and I jerk my head up. She's the last person I'd have expected to be… the first person to defend Gordon.

Chris just snorts with laughter, and clutches his throat, throwing himself dramatically onto the table. My section—the section I share with Ffion—jumps back, and I flinch as it hits me in the stomach.

He keeps on coughing and spluttering and retching, but now he's shrieking, too, and he's shrieking, "Oh, please, won't somebody help me? I'm just a poor useless queer and I can't fight my own battles!" He looks at me, and grins. "Isn't that right, Sophie? He's got to get you to help him."

Like a cat, I reach out and smack my hand, palm down, onto his face. “Shut the fuck up!” I hiss.

And he just laughs again. “Aw, that’s so cute that you’re copying Lena!” He slaps my hand away, and props himself up on his elbows, to look at her instead.

She’s standing there, holding her phone up to film him. “You’re on camera,” she says flatly, “So be careful what you say. What you do. We’ll have proof this time.”

“I don’t think you will!” Chris says, all sing-song. He gets off the table and strides towards her in half a second, grabbing her phone and holding it out of her reach. “The only thing you’ll have proof of is the ceiling, bitch.”

Lena jumps, trying to get her phone back, but Chris just snickers and stands on his tiptoes. He's got long arms, long legs, and huge feet, and he's five-eleven at the best of times. And he's strong. All he has to do is give Lena a vigorous elbow in the chest—and I feel that elbow as if he's hit me—and she stumbles backwards, tripping over her own feet and banging her head on the edge of the table behind her.

I can't help myself, can't help but knock back my chair and dash across the room to crouch beside her. "Oh, my goodness, are you OK?"

In a matter of seconds, Ffion is crouching next to me, holding three fingers up in front of Lena, asking how many.

Lena rubs her forehead and mumbles something unintelligible, but holds up three of her own. "Phone," she whispers, so that only Ffion and I can hear.

"I'll look after her," Ffion says, putting her arm around Lena and starting to help her up, saying, "I'm gonna get you to the medical room, OK?"

I nod, and look around the classroom for Scott, just in time to see the door bump shut. His seat and Gordon's seat are empty. I guess that's one thing. And I guess it explains why Scott isn't right now trying to wrestle Lena's phone out of Chris' grip.

That's my job. And I'm shite at it.

Because Chris has stopped the camera on Lena's phone, and he's clicked through to her texts. And he's reading them. Out loud. To the class. And I know them, know each word before he gets to saying them out loud. Because they're her texts to—and from—me.

I grab his wrists and start trying to pry Lena's phone out from his claw-like fingers, but it's no use. He's so much stronger and so much taller than I am, than Lena is, and she didn't get hold of it. I'm some kind of idiot to think I'll manage it.

He shoves me away, clambers onto the nearest table—ours—and carries on reading, putting on a high-pitched voice that… actually might not be an imitation of mine. "I actually love you more than I can say," he witters, "And I'm so glad we've found a way to be together at last. I'll see you on Saturday. Love you. Kiss, kiss, kiss." He hoots with laughter, and spins around to grin at Lena like a hungry dog. "Well, I heard you'd broken up with Scott, well enough, but nobody could have convinced me you'd move onto the kind of pussy—" He spits the word, "—who'd write something as gay as this! What, are you fucking Gordon, now?" That guffaw.

Lena doesn't move, even when Ffion—arm around her shoulder—tries to pull her along, out of the room, to go and see the school nurse.

She stands still on the spot, fingers tight around the chain of her crucifix as she fiddles with the pendant. She doesn't speak, and her eyes are full of tears.

Chris scrolls up and carries on reading, even as I put him in a headlock and grab at Lena's phone. I take a slim moment to glance around the room (why is nobody helping Lena, helping us? Why is Ffion the only one, other than me?) and see half a dozen of our classmates filming all of this on their phones. But the looks on their faces aren't the ravenous sneers of groundlings jeering at a brawl.

Stef's mouth is tight and flat, his eyes are hard, and he's watching over the top of his phone, watching the situation itself, not the video.

Tim is writing something in the centre fold of his Maths book, and I think of Gordon and all his poems and all his doodles of Jesus on the cross, captioned "#nailedit"... and I realise he's writing down what's happening. Taking notes. Getting ready to make a statement. That's why he's not stepping in.

Patrick Bird is chewing his lip as he films. God, God, of course. His brother. Chris could have gone after his brother just as easily. And making sure there's evidence of Chris' doing this now means he can go to the teachers and make sure Chris can't—

A rough bark of laughter bursts out of Chris' mouth, and he shrugs me off, then elbows me hard enough in the stomach that I crash to the ground, winded as pain shoots through my hip and into my lower back. Black stars explode across my vision, and I collapse into my back, ceiling spinning slowly above me like water in a plughole. Gasps for air leap out of me, but I can't seem to breathe in. Useless gulps. Grasps at yet another thing that's out of reach.

"I'm dreaming!" Chris says, "The contact name is "Tilly"! It's a girl!"

Tim bounds across the room, knocking his pen and Maths book flying over his desk, and pins Chris'arms by his side, hissing, "Drop it, drop it right now."

But it's too late.

Ffion yells Lena's name. The form room door bangs shut, and I drag myself into a sitting position to see a silent class, everyone's eyes on Chris.

Everyone knowing what he just found out about Lena. Everyone knowing—

"She's a dyke!" Chris yells as he struggles against Tim's grip, "She's a fucking muff muncher! She acts the good little Catholic girl, but she's a bean flicker and a lesbo and a dyke!"

"Shut up right now!" Tim shouts in his ear, "Shut up, and stop being an arsehole!"

"I'm taking you to medical," Ffion says, suddenly appearing at my side and helping me to my feet, pain creaking up my spine, "Come on, let's get you looked at."

I squeeze my eyes shut against the pain, and shake my head. "I'm not going to the nurse until I know Lena's OK." I grit my teeth and pull away from Ffion, not that it makes it easier to walk, not to have her supporting me, but what can I do?

"Sophie, wait," Ffion says, grabbing my blazer sleeve.

But I shrug her off. "I don't want your help!" I snap, looking her in the eye and praying she'll understand. Praying she'll understand I want nothing more. But I can't possibly let it show in front of Chris, whose eyes I can feel on me.

Ffion blinks hard, nods almost imperceptibly, and lets me go.

I stagger into the corridor and limp down the stairs, the beginnings of tears burning the back of my eyes. Crashing into the doors out to the quad, I practically trip over Gordon and Scott, who are crouching by the hedges just outside.

"Did you see her?" I gasp, clinging to the door-frame as agony bleeds through my bones.

"See who?" Gordon mumbles, picking at his blazer sleeves, arms wrapped around his hunched-up knees.

Scott swallows hard as he looks at me, and I know he knows, because she told me she'd told him. "Lena," he whispers.

I nod.

"What's happened?" He gets to his feet, and helps Gordon up, pulling him into a tight hug as soon as they're both standing. Resting his chin on top of Gordon's head, he studies my face.

"Chris got hold of her phone," I say, fiddling with my crucifix, "Read out texts from her girlfriend. And they were, like…" I glance at Gordon, who's turned his head to look at me, too. "They were obviously from another girl, so. He outed her. To everyone in the form."

Scott's lips turn pale grey, and his skin goes yellow. "Oh, my God," he whispers, "And where is she now?"

"She didn't come this way?" I reach into my blazer pocket for my phone, thinking I’ll call her, but I can't find it. Shit. Has it fallen out? In the classroom? Shit. All it would take for me to be outed as well is for Chris to call “Tilly” and hear my ringtone. My stomach jerks, and I press the back of my hand against my mouth.

In any case, her phone’s still in the classroom. What if I did ring it? Someone would see “Tilly” calling. Someone else. Someone who might not have a problem outing me, just as quickly and brutally as Chris just outed Lena. I think I’ll have bruises from how hard my heart’s beating to think of it.

Scott shakes his head. “One of us would’ve noticed.”

I nod. “OK. OK.” I squeeze my eyes shut, and try to think of where she might be. I seem to remember her crying in the toilets after she’d had a bad argument with Ffion, years ago. That was the argument that broke everything, actually. Something about Ffion’s parents not wanting her hanging around with “that sort”. At the time I thought--I was so sure I knew--they meant they didn’t want Ffion hanging around with Catholics, but… now I’m wondering if they maybe had some kind of inkling.

Bitterly, I wish now they’d told me what they maybe suspected. I might have plucked up the courage to tell Lena how I felt. I might never have started dating Chris. And we might have been able to avoid all this.

Quick, sharp pops echo across the quad, and I turn my head, trying to work out where they’re coming from. But as soon as I pinpoint it, they go quiet, and I have to peer into the distance through the smeared lenses of my glasses to make out the figure running across the school field.

But it’s her. Lena. Blonde hair flying loose and ragged in the wind, blazer flapping, legs going like jennies in a cotton mill.

I tap Scott on the shoulder and point Lena out to him.

He sighs heavily, and pinches the bridge of his nose. “I’m gonna kill Chris,” he mutters, grinding his teeth. But then he sets his jaw, and squeezes Gordon’s shoulder. “Come on,” he says, looking across the hockey field and pointing to Lena as well.

Gordon doesn’t need telling twice, and nor do I. All three of us sprint after her, the toes of our school shoes scuffing against the lumpy, greying grass.

I’m the first to reach the fence after she jumps it, and while she just hurled herself over--or that’s the way it looked--I have to stop, and climb, and for the hundredth time today, I hate my height. Five-three. May as well be Gordon.

And then we’re running, running, running through the woods, hoping to God that Lena’s sticking to the same path we’ve always taken, walking through. But, then again, why wouldn’t she? She doesn’t know we’re following her, and the undergrowth’s so thick everywhere else that she’d have to slow down or tear her legs to shreds in the brambles. We’d catch up with her.

“The path,” I pant, leaning heavily against a tree for a moment, “Where’s the path?” This isn’t a part of the woods I know, not well, at least. I’ve only run away from school once before, and that was years ago. Me, Char, Ffion… and Lena.

Years ago.

One reckless lunchtime that landed us all in detention for a week. Which might have been the reason behind quite a few things, now I think about it. Because I certainly didn’t think about it back then.

Scott turns around slowly on the spot, and points towards a gap between two clusters of trees. “Somewhere over there, I think,” he mumbles, “But I’m not sure.”

Gordon runs in the direction Scott’s pointing, calling over his shoulder to ask, “Where do you reckon she’s going?”

I shut my eyes and kiss my crucifix, hoping for a sign, hoping for anything that might give me even the slightest clue. A voice. A whisper. Anything. Please.

But all I hear is a crack of thunder so loud it sounds like a tree-branch snapping above our heads. I look up, and a few seconds later, there’s a flash, and another crash. Hard, heavy drops of rain beat against leaves, and soon start to splash onto our heads, cold in my hair, creeping across my scalp.

And I remember something Lena said, the evening we first kissed. It was raining then as well, harder than this, I think. With cramp clawing its way across my stomach, I remember what else I did that evening, and suddenly I can’t look at Gordon.

“I won’t be the only one getting struck by lightning,” she said, and suddenly I know exactly where she’s going.

“The church,” I whisper, “In Chase Valley. St Andrew Corsini. She’s going to church.”

Chapter 17: Retribution: Etta
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Homophobia.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
I can feel the silence. I can see it on everyone's lips, in everyone's wide, staring eyes. Lena's gone. Gordon and Scott are gone. Sophie's gone. And Tim has Chris in some kind of… well,not sure it's a half-Nelson, because I'm not entirely sure what half-Nelsons are. Something Char likes to threaten when Gordon gets a little bit cheeky and bastardy. But obviously she's been going easier on him recently.

But Char is shaking, and her fists, resting on the desk in front of her, are so tightly screwed that they look like rocks. Whatever just happened… she heard it.

And it's not good.

I tap her shoulder, and she turns around, eyes wet. "What happened?" I sign, frowning.

She shakes her head. "I can't say," she signs, "Let me write it down for you."

As she pulls her notebook out of her bag, I lean over her shoulder to watch her write, but then something flickers in the top corner of my vision, and I look up, instead.

Mr Mayes stands in the doorway, staring around the classroom, eyes huge and horrified. He signs as he speaks. "What on Earth is going on?" he demands, "The classroom is an absolute tip! Tables knocked over willy-nilly, chairs all over the place! Clear this up, right now! And Timothy, you will let go of Christopher this instant, and the two of you will go back to your desks immediately." He crosses to his desk, presses his photocopies down hard in the middle, and then stands up, frowning. He takes a moment to count us, and then counts again. "Where are the others?" he says, squinting as he works out who's missing. "Lena, Scott, Gordon, Sophie. Where are they?"

Char's still scribbling away. She's filled half a page, but I can't look any closer than a glance without Mr Mayes noticing. And I can't read Char's writing at a glance. It's gorgeous, but all the letters look almost identical.

I look up again, and see Ffion explaining something to Mr Mayes. I lean forward on my elbows, and strain to read her lips, but she's too far away, and the light's been awful in here since the rain started.

And then Char touches my hand, and slips the folded note into it.

Taking a moment to check that Mr Mayes is looking at Ffion, and not at me, I take the note and open it under my desk, unfolding it over my lap to read it privately.

What she’s written… it can’t be. It can’t be. My stomach burns, and my throat fills with a terrible lump. I feel like I’ve half-swallowed a stone, and tried to wash it down with a mug full of petrol.

I stare at Char. “Is this true?” I sign, eyebrows raised, bottom lip wobbling.

She nods as gravely as a doctor announcing someone their spouse didn’t make it.

I squeeze my eyes shut, screw up the note, and stuff it into my blazer pocket. Sighing, I lean on Char’s shoulder until she puts her arm around me and hugs me close. And I catch Tim’s eye across the room, see him ask if I’m OK, and shake my head.

Mr Mayes switches the lights on and off, and goes to sit in the chair behind his desk. Just before he sits down, he says, “I want you all to write down what happened, in your own words. And if anyone knows where Lena and the others are--especially Lena and Gordon--please come to the front and tell me.”

One by one, my classmates go to Mr Mayes’ desk and take sheets of lined paper from the tray there.

He picks up the phone and jabs in a number, then starts speaking too quickly for me to read his lips. Looking up, he waves Ffion over, and talks to her as well, passing her the handset for a minute, until she hands it back. A few more words. Maybe a sentence or two. And then he nods, and puts the phone down. “Thank you, Ffion,” he says, “You can sit down again now.”

Ffion nods quickly, and limps back to her desk, avoiding eye contact with Chris. She bows her head over her folded hands, and spins her thumbs around each other almost faster than I can see. Her skinny white digits are a blur, and her face is illegible, eyes fixed, unfocused, on the table under her hands.

I turn back around in my seat, and see Mr Mayes looking at me.

He waves me over, too, and I get up.

“You haven’t taken any paper,” he signs, “I need you to write a statement.”

I shake my head. “I didn’t understand any of what was happening,” I reply, chewing my lip, “Char had to explain it to me.” I fish the paper out of my pocket, and smooth it flat against his desk. “This is all I know about it, and it comes from her.”

Mr Mayes nods. “OK. That’s fine. Do you know where the others went?”

“No, Sir. Sorry, Sir.”

“There’s no need to be sorry,” Mr Mayes signs, “It’s not like you started this.” He looks at Ffion, and then his eyes move to Chris. I just about hear him snap, “And you, Mr Davison, can get out of my sight! Go and stand in the corridor, and wait for Mrs Paulson!” He must really be raising his voice. I can feel it in the air, can see it in his face--stretched skin and taut muscles, veins jumping at his temples.

Flinching, I look over my shoulder, and see Chris smirking, arms folded, feet resting on the desk, shoes only a few inches from Ffion’s hands. But he turns his smirk on Mr Mayes, and shrugs insolently. I watch his lips. “Don’t see why I should, Sir. I did what anyone else would’ve done. She had it coming to her, the fucking dyke.”

“Christopher Davison, get out of the classroom this instant!” snaps Mr Mayes, so loudly that my hearing aid whines for a few seconds as I turn towards the sound of his voice. “Do not make me ask again!”

As if Chris has time to get out of the room and wait for Mrs Paulson before she sweeps into the classroom, flinging the door back so that it bounces off the rubber wall-bumper.

Stopping the backswing with the toe of one of her black heeled boots, she holds the door open with one outstretched arm, standing eerily still as she stares around at us. “Loretta, you can sit back down,” Mrs Paulson says, gesturing to the nearest table and miming pulling out a chair. She only knows a handful of Makaton signs, which is better than knowing nothing, I guess, but not much. My first language is BSL. Makaton has more in common with English, and it’s not meant to be used on its own. Luckily, she doesn’t try.

She claps her hands, and strides to the front of the classroom. “Can someone interpret for me, please?” she asks, her smooth grey eyes flicking around the classroom, from face to face to face.

Usually it would be Gordon, to give Char a break, but, of course, he’s not here.

So Char stands up, and waves at Mrs Paulson, who beckons her up to the front of the classroom, and gets her to stand in front of the whiteboard, facing me.

“This is a very serious incident,” says Mrs Paulson, “And I want to know as much about it as possible. Give as much detail as you can remember in your statements, and don’t confer. You are not to talk to each other as you write. When you’ve finished them, come to my office, knock at the door, and wait for me to come out and talk to you. In the meantime, I want you all to think about what you’ve allowed to happen today. Because I’m disgusted with you, Year Ten. You’ve let each other down, you’ve let yourselves down, and you’ve let this school down, too.” She straightens her back, and puts her hands behind her back, pushing her chest out so that she looks like one of my pigeons. “Poor Lena!” she exclaims, her eyes widening behind her thick, black-framed glasses. “Does anyone know where she’s gone? Or Gordon?”

She turns her head sharply, to fix Chris with a furious glare. “I don’t know what you find so funny, Christopher,” she snaps, “From what Mr Mayes has told me, this is more your fault than everyone else’s, put together. Go and report yourself to Mr Peters, right now. Tell him what you’ve done, and ask what you might do to make it up to your classmates.”

Char’s signing slows down, and stops for a moment as her brow crinkles, and I know she’s trying to work out--just as I’m trying to work out--what on Earth that’s supposed to mean.

I don’t think there’s anything Chris can do to make this up to Lena and Gordon, short of reporting himself to the police, or maybe leaving Chase Valley and going to live on his own in a hut, somewhere where the sun doesn’t shine.

Surrey, maybe.

But Mrs Paulson’s still talking, and Char turns bright pink from the exertion of catching up to what she says next.

“The rest of you, write your statements. Ffion, if you’d come with me, I’d like to have a little chat with you, OK?” She waves Ffion over, and puts an arm around her shoulder--not touching, just sort of… hovering--as the two of them walk out of the room.

If I’m not writing a statement--and I can’t very well write a statement--I have nothing to do. I can’t very well just stare at my desk for the rest of the lesson; I will definitely go mad, especially right now. Right now, with the last half-hour or so playing on a bewildering loop in my head, trying to match the silent movie I remember with what Char told me. Without something to distract me, I’ll get a migraine, or have a panic attack, or… or just start crying.

So I pull the elastic out from around my puff ponytail, and shake my head until my hair tumbles loose around my shoulders, running my fingers through my curls and through my curls and through my curls until my heart slows down a little.

Char pauses by Mr Mayes’ desk, and talks to him for a moment, then nods, and comes to sit next to me again. “So, I don’t have to write a statement,” she signs, “Because of the note I wrote you, and… well, the note you gave to Mr Mayes. Do you want me to plait your hair for you? Make you a nice headband braid?”

To have her fingers gently pulling my hair into pretty shapes… That’s always calmed me down. As relieved as though I’ve taken off a backpack so heavy it’s hurt to breathe, I sigh, and smile, and nod, resting my elbow on the table and bowing my head so that she can work.

Chapter 18: Absolution: Lena
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Homophobia.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.
*Note: The discussion of homophobia in this chapter leads to things being OK for the character subjected to it. Ultimately it is a positive discussion.

Chapter Text
The lych gate bangs shut behind me as I run up the path to the Church of St Andrew Corsini, and gravel skitters under my feet as I scramble and skid and slip, tripping on the stone steps up to the door.

Why didn’t I hold my phone tighter? Why didn’t I just kick Chris in the shin, or lock my phone as he grabbed at it, or shove it back in my pocket, sharpish? Fuck. I really am focussing on the wrong bit, aren’t I? Fuck. Of course I am.

I stumble into the church and genuflect by the pew my family always sits in. The flagstone is cold against my knees, and my fingers tremble as I grip the wood of the seat. I suck in deep breath after deep breath after deep breath, squeezing my eyes shut for a long moment before opening them up again, and staring at the patches of coloured light on the ground. Stained glass rainbows on cold, cold grey. Shaking, I press my head against the side of the pew, and sagger to my feet, side-stepping into the row and bending my head as I sit, whispering prayers for forgiveness.

But I know I can’t have it. How could I have been so stupid? So cocky, so arrogant as to think… as to let Sophie think… that what the Bible says about… people like us… is anything other than a condemnation of what we do?

The storm roils overhead, and in my stomach, too, as I curl in on myself, pressing my palm over my mouth to stifle the wail that escapes.

No.

Not a wail.

A scream. A quiet scream, broken by visceral sobs as rain lashes the windows, and clouds block the sun. The light from the stained glass fades, all colour shrinking out of the church so that it looks like a desaturated photo. Horror-film cinematography. Because I am horrifying.

I dig my fingernails hard into the palms of my hands until bright pink crescents form in my skin. It’s not enough. I shouldn’t have cut my nails, shouldn’t have cut them short, shouldn’t have… God doesn’t want me to cut my nails. Staring at my wrists, I picture nails--steel nails--pinning my wrists to the arms of a wooden cross as drops of blood slither down towards my elbows. I see my head bowed, eyes closed, lips twisted against a scream of agony. It’s what I deserve, it’s what I deserve, it’s what I deserve, and I brought all of this on myself. I pull my hair and hunch forward until my forehead presses hard against the ridge of the pew in front of mine.

Thin whimpers strain from my throat, and I keep trembling, legs jumping with an electric kind of panic, shoe-soles drumming against the floor. I hug my knees, and press my mouth hard against my folded hands in an attempt to stop the shrieks.

“Lena?”

I whip around, jerking my head up to see Father Matthew standing at the entrance to my pew, staring at me with large, drooping eyes.

“You’re meant to be in school? What’s going on?” He raises his eyebrows a little, and gestures to the seat, indicating he’d like to sit down, and, when I nod, he does. “Are you all right?” he asks, pulling a packet of tissues from the pocket of his black cassock, and handing one to me. “Dry your eyes, my dear, and tell me what’s wrong.”

The words stick in my throat, choking me until I think i’ll be sick. But I force them out, gasping for breath. “I need to confess,” I splutter, “I’ve… I’ve made a big mistake. Lots of big mistakes.”

“Well, there’s no-one else in the church,” Father Matthew says, “So you can tell me right here, if you want. If that would make you feel better.” He looks at my legs, and frowns. “Where did you get that nasty scrape? Hold on while I get the First Aid kit.”

What nasty scrape? As he hurries up the aisle to the vestry, I shift in the pew and stretch out my legs. Oh. That nasty scrape. I guess my shin lost its argument with the steps outside. Stone’s eloquent, apparently.

Father Matthew returns a few minutes later with a green plastic briefcase, which he flips open. He pulls out a handful of antiseptic wipes, and crouches in front of me to clean the cut on my shin. “Now, then, how did this happen?” he asks softly, pressing a long, white plaster over it, and then looking up at me. He pushes his small glasses up his nose, and gets to his feet, putting the First Aid kit away.

“Fell on the steps,” I mumble, “But that’s not...” I shake my head, “That’s not the big mistake I made. I... ” I sigh. “Forgive me, Father, for I have...” I bite my tongue, and look up at the vaulted ceiling, determined not to cry again. Difficult as it might be… Father Matthew can’t repeat anything I tell him at Confession. And it’s better he find out now, this way, than next time he sees Chris. At least this is almost on my own terms.

Father Matthew nods, and cocks his head to the side, attentive. He waits.

“I’ve… I’ve kissed girls,” I whisper, “Um… I’ve been dating a girl… and she’s…” I shake my head. “She’s a good Catholic. I’ve been leading her astray. I think that’s the word?” My voice is cracking, and there’s that lump growing in my throat, again. “And I’ve been… I’ve been telling myself it’s OK, ‘cause the Bible says it is, but…” I choke out a sob. “But that’s not true, is it? “Man shall not lie with man.” “Homosexuals shall not inherit the Kingdom of God.””

He sighs. “I know what the Bible says,” he replies quietly, pinching the bridge of his nose and pushing his glasses up again. “But I also know--and you also know--that it’s been translated so many times that…” He clasps my hands between his. “A lot of its original meaning has been lost. I can’t forgive you.”

What?! I might as well not have bothered, trying to hold back tears. They spill over, and flood down my face, burning my cheeks. “Then how--”

“Oh, no, no, that’s not what I mean!” he exclaims, “Goodness me, no! Lena, I can’t forgive you, because you haven’t sinned. There’s nothing for me to forgive. Think about God. What do you know about Him?” He smiles. “He’s Godly. And what does that mean?” He nudges me with his elbow. “Go on.”

“Omnipotent,” I mumble, thinking of the lightning flashing outside the windows.

“Yes, and…?”

“Omniscient,” I whisper, realising how pointless it’s been to try keeping Sophie a secret. God has always known. He has always been watching. Watching me. Keeping score. Choosing his moment.

“Yes, and…?” Father Matthew leans forward a little, maybe an inch, and smiles. “What else is He?”

I shake my head. “I don’t know,” I mumble, tears splashing onto my lap, soaking into the grey drill of my skirt.

“Omnibenevolent,” he says, “God’s omnibenevolent! He only wants what’s best for you. He only wants you to be happy. And He’s omniscient, so He knows what you’re up to, and He’s omnipotent, so he could stop you doing anything He didn’t want you to be doing. He could stop you setting yourself up for sadness, and He could stop you hurting other people. But He loves you, Lena, just like He loves all his children, and He made you exactly the way He wanted--and still wants--you to be.”

“But I hate myself,” I whisper, “If you had any idea of the things I’ve done, of the lies I’ve told--”

“If half the stories I’ve heard recently are true… about this village...” Father Matthew shakes his head, “I can’t blame you for a single moment. It must be terrifying.” He puts his hand on my shoulder. “Lena, will you look at me?”

I do.

His eyes are soft, his face genuine. “I can’t blame you, and I don’t blame you, all right? You’re scared, and you have every reason to be, and I’m so, so sorry that the world’s like this. It shouldn’t be. You shouldn’t have to live in fear. It shouldn’t be like this, not in 2014.” He shakes his head, muttering, “So much for marriage equality. Legislation does next to nothing for the people it deigns to acknowledge. God, on the other hand?” He smiles. “God is here to help you, God is here to love you, and God is here to protect you, to give you the strength to overcome this. God’s looking after you, even when it feels like He isn’t. And I promise you, if He had a problem with you being… How do you identify?”

“Lesbian,” I mumble, barely able to voice. I stare at the floor.

“Well, if God had a problem with you being a lesbian, He wouldn’t have made you a lesbian in the first place. But He did make you a lesbian, and the best thing you can do to be a good Christian is to embrace the way He’s made you. That’s what God wants, for you and all His children: self-acceptance.”

I pull my shoulders close, and hug my arms. “Did God want Chris to hurt Gordon?” I whisper, “Is that why He let that happen? Chris tried to drown Gordon in the lake, Father! Why didn’t God stop him?”

Father Matthew sighs, and shakes his head. “I don’t know, Lena. I’m sorry. I wish I could answer that question, could explain why a good God would let something like that happen… but I know you don’t want to hear that it was a test of Gordon’s strength, or a difficulty for him to overcome. That’s not helpful. Maybe, one day, something will happen to make it make sense. But I don’t know.” He’s not smiling anymore, and there are tears in his eyes. “Thank you for telling me that. Do you want me to talk to Chris? Try to find out why he’d do that? Or try to reason with him? Make him see… Make him see sense?”

I shake my head. “I don’t know if you could,” I reply, “Chris has his own ideas about God and sin and… and I thought he’d picked them up here, at St Andrew Corsini, but… I’m sorry I expected that from this Church, Father. I’m sorry I expected that from you.”

“Don’t be sorry,” he says, “There are a lot of people who take the word of God, and twist it, make it into an amplifier for their hate. For their bigotry, to try and justify it. And then they scream their misinterpretations so aggressively, so loudly, that they drown out people who do know. I’m sorry I wasn’t speaking loudly enough for you to hear me when I said God loves you. I’m sorry.” He hugs me. “God does love you, Lena. Please don’t ever forget that.”

I swallow hard. "Thank you, Father," I whisper, "Thank you."

"It's my vocation, Lena," he says, "I became a priest because I wanted to help people feel closer to God. I wanted to help people be happy. It's really the least I can do." He pauses. "Do your parents know?"

I shake my head. "How can I tell them? They'll throw me out of the house. Disown me. Like—" I break off, biting my tongue so that I won't say, "Like my neighbours did with their daughter." I still remember the night Sarah was thrown out, and the morning after, when Mum told us why. It's one of my earliest memories. And thankfully it's one of my most vivid, or I might have been stupid enough to come out to my parents already.

But it's not like it's easy to forget; it's not like I've seen Sarah since. It's not like anyone has seen Sarah since. What did Pastor Mayes tell people? What did Pastor Mayes tell his son?

What is his son saying to his class now? My stomach churns and gurgles.

"Would you like to tell them?" Father Matthew asks, "I could help. I could sit with the three of you—or the four of you, if you haven't told your brother, either—and explain to them what I've just explained to you, that it's OK, that you can still be a Catholic."

I shake my head. "I think this is something I have to do on my own," I mumble, "But thank you… and… um… can I still ask you to explain things, if I change my mind, or if…" I can't say it. "If they fly off the handle."

All I can think of is how still Gordon lay on the sand. I bet he thought it was all going to be OK, too. And I'd like to think my parents will be OK as well… but I don't know anything for sure. Not anymore. If I ever did.

"Of course," Father Matthew says, "That's exactly what I'm here for. That's why they call it "pastoral care", looking after the wellbeing of people in the community." He smiles, and pats my shoulder. "Just call the church office if you need anything, won't you? I'll be there as soon as I can."

Footsteps pop behind us, echoing off the walls and arches and vaultings of the church, and I look round to see Sophie standing in the doorway, light splaying out behind her, so that she's only visible in silhouette.

But that doesn't matter. It's still unmistakably Sophie, and I'd know her anywhere, even if I couldn't see her at all.

She runs towards me, skirting around to the other end of the pews before sliding up the seat to sit next to me. "Are you OK?" she asks, reaching for my hand.

But I flinch away, and my heart thunders as I realise Father Matthew must have seen. I trust him, of course I do, especially after… after this conversation… but the more people know, the more danger we're in.

"It's OK, Father knows about me," Sophie says, smiling at Father Matthew with tears in her eyes. "Remember? I told you, I went Confession on my—"

"—On your birthday," I finish, furrowing my brow as I remember that night in my kitchen.

My brain is cluttered up with everything else. With what happened later that night. Our dates. Meeting in the shelter of the lunch gate. Wandering through Prudhoe, colliding with Ffion and thinking she was the threat. My brain is cluttered, and somewhere among that clutter is the memory of what Sophie said, about going to Confession. And somewhere I lost that memory.

I squeeze Sophie's hand, and touch it to my crucifix before I press a gentle kiss against her knuckles.

"Thank you, Father," I say, bowing my head, "I think I'll talk to my family this evening. In the meantime… I think I should probably be getting back to school."

After we've said goodbye to Father Matthew, Sophie wraps her arm around my shoulder, and guides me out of the church, into the graveyard.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

We sit down on the bench beside my Auntie Mary's gravestone, and I lean over, to pick wisps of lichen and damp catkins off the top of it.

Sophie pulls a phone out of her pocket. But it's not her phone. When she sees me frown, she half-smiles, and waves it gently in the air. "It's Gordon's," she says, "He lent it to me, so that I could let him and Scott know when I'd found you, safe. They're both really worried about you, darling," she whispers, taking my hand and squeezing it for a moment, before she has to let go.

It's silent in the graveyard, except for the songs of finches and larks, and the cawing of crows, and I can't see anyone around. But, just because I can't see anyone, that doesn't mean there isn't anyone here.

Sophie taps a text, sends it off, and links her arm through mine. “Innocuous enough,” she says, helping me up, “Come on. They’re waiting for us at my house.”

Chapter 19: Witness: Ffion
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Disordered Eating (Food Insecurity) / Discussion of Homophobia.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
Mrs Paulson closes the door of her office behind her, and gestures for me to take a seat. “Thank you for explaining what happened, Ffion,” she says, smiling and nodding, “That was very kind of you. And helpful, too. And that’s why I want you to listen to me very carefully, because I’m trying to be helpful, too; I’m trying to help you.”

Help me… what? I frown.

"What's happening at home, Ffion?" she asks, "What do you usually do when you get home from school?"

"I… um… help out around the house, um… a bit of washing-up.” I can’t look at her, have to fold my hands over my crossed knees and stare, stare, stare at the red cracks on my knuckles, the cracks left by sinks full of soapy water, cold and clammy and greasy since heating it go so expensive.

I think I’m remembering a book I read once, about a servant in the seventeenth century. She worked in a kitchen, scrubbing pots and pans until her hands were scarlet, and painfully-raw. I guess she had the Plague to deal with, which… at least I don’t.

That’s one thing I’ve got going for me. Oh, and all this has taught me to cook pretty well on a button budget. “Sometimes I make supper,” I add, hoping my smile doesn’t look fake, because this one actually isn’t. A pack of lentils goes a long way. Most of a week, in fact.

“Oh, that’s nice,” says Mrs Paulson, writing it down on a yellow legal pad. “And how often’s that?”

Sure, it’s whenever there’s something to cook, because that’s my job: make supper while Mum looks for work, and Dad struggles through each new day. “Three or four nights a week,” I say, which is, of course, not a lie. That’s about as often as we have enough food for actual meals. I cover my mouth with the back of my hand, and clear my throat.

“That’s a little more often than we’d like you to be cooking,” Mrs Paulson replies, “Given you have GCSEs to focus on. You need to stay on top of your homework, and there’ll be a lot of it next year. Could someone at home do some of it for you? Who cooks, the rest of the time?”

Damn. I’m not supposed to lie, and I really don’t want to lie, but Mrs Paulson is craning her neck to meet my eye as I’m sitting, trying not to make eye-contact. My skin prickles, and a drop of sweat tracks its way down the inside of my arm. I bite my lip, chew a scar that’s forming into a hard knot of skin.

“Ffion? Who cooks, the rest of the time?” she repeats, reaching for my hand. “Is it your Mum?”

Does a shrug count as a lie? I guess I’ll find out.

It seems to satisfy her, and she doesn’t seem to realise that there isn’t a “rest of the time”.

“OK,” she says, writing something else down. “And what do you usually have to eat? What’s a typical breakfast?”

I shake my head. “I don’t eat breakfast,” I mumble, “Have to get ready for school.” I look out of the window.

Mrs Paulson frowns. “You should eat something of a morning,, my dear, even if it’s just a slice of toast.”

Deciding to indulge myself for once, I imagine she doesn’t hear my quiet snort of laughter (Toast! As if we can afford to use the toaster!). I gnaw on the fantasy of it, relishing the feeling of being taken seriously.

“Breakfast’s important, Ffion. Do you ever get dizzy in the run-up to lunch?”

I keep looking out of the window, and start picking at a spot of hard skin next to one of my bitten-down nails. And I don’t answer.

“What do you usually have for lunch, Ffion? Do you go to the hall? The cafeteria?”

I shake my head, mumbling that’s it’s too expensive. I can get away with that one, though; it really is too expensive, and everyone says so. Even Gordon. Might be the only thing we’ve always agreed on.

“So you bring something in from home, then?” Mrs Paulson asks. She clears her throat. “Look, I understand you’ve had a nasty day, with what you witnessed in Maths, but--”

“It’s not that,” I mutter, uncrossing my legs, and then crossing them again, the other way around. I wince as my blistered feet smart. I’d almost forgotten how far gone my shoes were. Huh. “It didn’t upset me, Miss. It just pissed me off.” I pause. Wrinkle my nose. “Sorry for saying “piss”... And sorry for saying it again.”

Fuck.

“Annoyed me,” I correct myself, “To see Christopher taking out whatever… Whatever he’s dealing with right now, I don’t know… but to take it out on other people, that’s not OK. I think he just broke up with his girlfriend. Sophie Wainwright?”

“Do you think that’s why he acted out in Maths?” Mrs Paulson asks, clicking the button at the tail of her ballpoint pen. She poises the nib over the next page of the pad.

“I don’t actually care, Miss,” I mutter, “I mean, she broke up with him ‘cause of what he did to Gordon, so I guess that’s why Christopher went after him. ‘Cause he blames him.”

Mrs Paulson frowns. “What did he do to Gordon?” She clears her throat--because, yes, I am still looking out of the window, at the lovely rain nice Mr Christ has sent us--and clicks her fingers. “Ffion. Look at me, please.”

I bite my tongue, nod at the window (“Thank you, Lord.”), and turn to face her again. “Sorry, Miss.”

“What did Christopher do to Gordon?” she repeats, pushing her glasses up her nose.

Um. Um. “It’s probably not my place to say, Mrs Paulson.”

It’s definitely not my place to say. I’ve found out a little more since that argument on the field, but… none of it makes any of this even slightly better. I owe Gordon an apology. I know that, but… after the things I said to him--and I know they were horrible, and I know they were un-Christian--I don’t imagine he wants to hear another word from me. The best apology I can give is my silence.

“Is it something I need to know?” Mrs Paulson asks persistently, “Something I should talk to Christopher about?” And, when I don’t answer, just blink, she asks again, “What did Chris do to Gordon?”

I didn’t see it, I didn’t do it, and I have no idea how much I know about what really happened. “Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.” It’s the Eighth Commandment. So I sigh, and shake my head. “Not a clue, Miss. Sorry. But I think you’re best off, asking Gordon. Or Sophie.”

She nods. “Thank you. That’s good enough for now; I’ll ask them both, once we know where they are. Scott and Lena, too.” She scribbles something, and then flips back to the page she was using earlier. “So, where were we with your… Ah, yes. We were talking about lunchtime. What do you bring in from home?”

“Oh. This and that,” I mumble, picking at a loose thread on the hem of my skirt.

“Packed lunch?” she asks.

I nod. “Something like that.” She doesn’t want me to answer, “Stashed cereal bar,” and I know that. I’m not an idiot. Or maybe I am. Thinking of the half-finished one in my locker makes my stomach gurgle needily, and I clap my palm over it, as if that’s ever going to stifle the noise.

“Sandwiches?” she suggests.

I shrug. “Sometimes.” It used to be the truth, so… so that’s probably OK, right? I squeeze my eyes shut, giving a tiny moment to a prayer for forgiveness.

Mrs Paulson glances at the door, and then leans forward on her elbows, lowering her voice. “Please don’t think I’m trying to intrude just for the sake of it, Ffion. I’m not. I’m just worried about you, because, well… because you don’t seem to be very happy.” She blinks a few times in quick succession, and then continues, “And I’m a little concerned that you show signs of disordered eating. Do you know that you’re very thin?”

I nod. Of course I do. I can see my hands, my legs… Every time I get dressed or undressed, I see my ribs, and every time I catch sight of my reflection, there are my jagged cheekbones and stark clavicles.

“Do you know how much you weigh?” she asks, and, when I shake my head, she asks how much I really eat in one day. “How many actual meals, Ffion? And… please tell the truth, this time.” She reaches for my hand, and picks it up, cradling my skinny fingers as if she’s visiting me on a hospital ward.

“One,” I mumble, knowing hospital is exactly where I’ll end up if nothing changes. I’ve lost count of the times I’ve been close to fainting, today alone. And that groan from my stomach, oh… just at the thought of food… “One, if I’m lucky.” I sigh. “It’s not enough--and I know that, I do--but it’s as much as I can manage.”

Mrs Paulson nods, and jots, and I try to read what she’s writing, but it just looks like a mess of squiggles. Shorthand. Mum says she’ll teach me, one day, but… for the moment… squiggles.

“Do you want to eat more?” she asks.

I nod, and my eyes burn.

“And why don’t you?” Her voice softens.

I lower my eyes, and loose my hand from hers, as I fight the first fall of tears. “Can’t afford to,” I whisper, shaking my head. (Now that’s a lie, a lie of omission: my whole body is shaking.)

Mrs Paulson nods, and grabs a box of tissues from her desk. “You can cry if you want to--it’s OK--and you should cry if it feels like you need to. Crying’s good for you. It relieves stress, brings calm. It tires you out a little, so that you don’t have so much energy for worrying. Now… if it’s OK for me to ask… why can’t you afford to? What’s the situation?”

I reach for a tissue, and catch two large tears just in time. “Mum can’t find work!” I blurt, the words bursting out of me all at once, like a torrent of water from a newly-unblocked tap. And then, as if that’s all the voice I have, my next words creak out, barely even whimpers. “And my Dad’s sick. And he’s not gonna get better.”

Mrs Paulson nods, and gives me another tissue. “Can you tell me about that?”

“Lupus,” I whisper, “And brittle asthma… and a bunch of other stuff that’s not life-threatening, but… but doesn’t have to be. He’s on a cannula since a flare-up hit his lungs last year. And this is as healthy as he’s ever gonna be again.” I shake my head. “He might have a good day, here and there, but...” My voice cracks, and I trail off, burying my face in the tissue and blowing my nose as fresh tears spill over.

“Oh, my dear,” Mrs Paulson says, patting me gently on the shoulder, “I’m so sorry to hear that. That’s a terrible thing to be going through. Do both… do both your parents live with you?”

I nod.

“And a carer, for your Dad?”

“No, that’s me,” I mumble, folding the tissue up and dropping it into the bin by Mrs Paulson’s desk, “And my Mum, when she’s home, but… he’s on his own during the day, ‘til I get back from school.”

“And then you take care of him?” Mrs Paulson’s not looking at me now, just writing faster than I have ever imagined being able to write, shorthand-shorthand-shorthand, in that pad.

“Yeah.”

“Until your Mum gets home? Where is she, usually?”

I shake my head. “It changes, one day to the next. Job-hunting, mostly. Interviews and such. We don’t have a computer at home, so sometimes she goes to the library in Wooler, to print off a bunch of CVs, or to look for vacancies online. Or she’s at the job centre in Berwick.”

“Do you get--and I’m really sorry to be asking this, but--does your family get Jobseeker’s Allowance? Or a Disability Pension, for your Dad?”

“Don’t think so,” I mumble, “They’re not great about accepting charity. Someone tried to offer Mum her taxi fare home from the hospital once, after she had to leave Dad there, and head to a job interview, but she wouldn’t hear of it.”

“OK,” Mrs Paulson says. She stops writing, and looks up. “If neither of your parents are in work, and you’re a Young Carer, I’d say that qualifies you for free school meals. Now, obviously your parents don’t like charity, but I don’t know how you feel about--”

“Don’t want it,” I mutter, straightening my skirt and getting to my feet as I wipe my eyes on the cuff of my blazer.

“This isn’t technically charity,” Mrs Paulson interrupts me gently, taking hold of my hand, and gesturing for me to sit back down, “It’s government-funded. If your Mum paid taxes at her last job, or if your Dad did, when he was still able to work, then they’d have been paying into the pot. It’s not charity; it’s more like a cushion, or a safety-net, to help people out when they’re struggling. And it sounds like you’re struggling quite a lot.”

I sit down, but I shake my head, and stare into my lap, not making eye-contact. “Don’t want any help,” I mumble, voice thickening again. More tears. As if I need those right now.

No.

What I need is some fucking dignity. I sit up, straighten my back, and take a deep, slow breath.

"I don't need any help, thank you," I say smoothly, keeping back the wobble in my voice. "If there's money there, save it for someone who does."

Mrs Paulson nods. "That's exactly what we're doing. Because, whether you believe it or not, you deserve better, and it's part of my job, as a senior teacher here, to help you get it. What can I do to support you? That's all I'm trying to do, so what would be helpful? Can I put your family in touch with a local carer agency? Or maybe I can make sure you see a counsellor who works with Young Carers?"

I flinch. Both of those definitely involve my parents finding out about this conversation. And they'd think I was going begging, unless I told them the truth about why I was in Mrs Paulson's office today. "Is there anything you can do that stays between us?"

"Everything you say to me is in strict confidence," she insists, tapping the tail of her pen on the page, for emphasis, "If you're worried about your peers finding out, don't be. They won't."

"Not my peers I'm worried about," I reply quietly, "My parents won't… won't like it if I'm getting charity. And I know it's not technically charity, but that's how they'll see it."

Mrs Paulson nods. "I understand. It's OK. You're right, they'd obviously be aware of it if I put your family in touch with services like that. But I can sign you up for free school meals without them knowing." She smiles. "Even if you just stop being hungry all the time, that's one substantial problem we can fix quickly. Today, even. Do you have something to eat this lunchtime?"

I think of the emergency cereal bar in my locker, and know immediately—can't imagine how—that it doesn't count. I shake my head.

"OK, well, it'll take a day or so to get you officially registered, but I can sign a note for your lunch today."

"Miss, I don't know if I'm comfortable with—"

"Oh, no, I know exactly what you're worried about, and you don't need to be. It's just a note that says "Call Mrs Paulson to confirm", and then it's got my signature at the bottom. She pulls a yellow slip out of the drawer of her desk, and squiggles her signature at the bottom. "It doesn't specify what it's for, so nobody will know. In the canteen, you can just say, "I have a note", and they'll check with me if they're confused. Or if they don't believe you." She smiles. "I'm sure I can trust you not to abuse it. Don't… I don't know… try and use it as a permission slip to take more than fifteen books out of the library at a time, for example. This is just for your free school meals, to tide you over until you're actually on the system."

I try not to laugh. Is that her idea of rebellion? Reading too much? I think that would probably make me the most boring miscreant in the world.

Mrs Paulson smiles, and folds the slip in half. "Do keep it safe, won't you?"

I tuck it into my pocket, and nod.

But then there's a noise outside, or she sees something out of the corner of her eye, and Mrs Paulson jumps to her feet, peering out of the window. "Oh, thank the Lord," she whispers, pressing the tips of her fingers against her collarbone.

"What's the matter?" I get up, and look at the four figures crossing the quad, two closely-huddled pairs.

"I wouldn't mind betting that's your missing classmates," she says, "Do excuse me for a moment, please."

As she crosses the office and opens the door, I wipe my eyes and nose on one more tissue, and follow her, asking, "Is it all right if I go back to class?"

She nods. "As long as you're ready," she replies.

And I think I am. I think I'm ready for a lot of things.

Chapter 20: Testament: Scott
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Homophobia / Discussion of Hate Crime / Discussion of Assault / PTSD / Panic Attack.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
After half an hour at Sophie's, all curled up with tea and blankets to warm us up after being in the rain for so long, we traipse back to school through the last of the wet.

The forest floor is sludgy and slippery underfoot, like we're walking through half-melted chocolate ice cream. I wish I could say that were a good thing—I like chocolate ice cream—but I really can't. My feet keep sinking, and, by the time we get back to school, all four of us, our shoes are grey with mud, and we're shivering again, blazers soggy from water dripping from the trees overhead.

I wish I'd brought one of the blankets along. Anything to keep the rain off. Somehow there's something worse about the way cold drip-water feels, sinking into my hair, than the way the rain feels, doing exactly the same thing.

All four of us look like we've crawled off a riverbed, I'm sure. Lena and Sophie look like sirens, streaming-wet hair slicked to their scalps, and, well… Gordon looks like some kind of… bridge troll. Which means so do I.

Hi. I'm Scott, and I live in the shadows, wading around, catching me some minnows for a midnight snack. Oh, you thought you saw me at Sainsbury's last week? You thought wrong. I'm banned, for reasons relating to mysterious puddles that appeared in the bubble bath aisle.

Gordon bounds along next to me, springing off the ground to ruffle his hands cheekily through my hair. "One soggy bog boy!" he crows, cackling as he splashes down into the next puddle.

Mud explodes around him, splattering on Sophie's bare shins. "Oh, you bastard!" she shrieks, swiping it off with her palms, and slapping two indignant brown handprints onto the back of his blazer. "See if I don't buzz a brick through your bedroom window!"

Gordon spins around on his heel, and boops Sophie on the nose. "No, you see if I don't hire a team of builders to replicate the Walkie-Talkie building opposite your house, pointing in just the right direction, so that, every time the sun shines, it bounces off the Walkie-Talkie building's thousands of windows, focussing on your house and setting it on fire!" He folds his arms, beaming triumphantly. "Got you there, haven't I?"

Sophie squints at him, and then smirks. "No." She shows him all her teeth, and adds, "And that's the most weirdly specific, literally-incredible threat anyone has ever made."

Gordon shoves his hands deep into his blazer pockets, and shimmies his shoulders. "What can I say? A copper's son knows all the loopholes in the law!"

I snort with laughter, and put Gordon in a soft headlock. "And the friend of a copper's son is much taller than the copper's son, and lives right opposite him. So he can make sure nobody throws any bricks through any of your windows."

“Hey, I never said “throw”!” Sophie protests, jostling me with her elbow.

I put her in a headlock with my other arm. “I think you’ve got a little more in common with your enemy than you’d like to admit, Miss Wainwright, if you’ree going to be basing your argument on semantics.”

Gordon giggles, and pulls himself free of my grip. “What can I say? Gordonosis is catching.”

“Oh, so that’s what the doctors decided to call it,” Sophie says, snickering as I let her go, too. “I was beginning to wonder if they’d ever come up with a name for it.”

He scowls at her. “I’m not joking about the Walkie-Talkie building,” he hisses, pushing his glasses up his nose, and narrowing his eyes.

“I don’t need you to be,” she replies blithely, flashing him a delightful smile, “I’m quite happy to lie down in front of your bulldozers, Mr Benn.”

“Well, it’s very bold of you to assume I have morals,” he replies, straightening his tie and sounding just like a CEO--albeit a muddy one--“I’ll just run you over.”

“Joke’s on you, then,” Sophie says, shrugging, “If I die, I’ll never have to do homework again.” She cups her hands around her chin, and flutters her eyelashes like a cartoon princess. “Score.”

Lena rests her head on top of Sophie’s, and hugs her shoulders. “You don’t have to do it anyway,” she points out, “You could just… not. What are they gonna do? Give you detention? That’s hardly a punishment. You love school.”

Sophie grins, and pats Lena’s hands with more affection than I’d expect from someone who’s as scared as she must be, right now. What if Gordon works it out, and lets slip? But she doesn’t seem worried. “Yeah, I do,” she admits, chuckling.

And then she stops giggling as we cross the school field. Because of course she does.

As soon as we get into the quad, Mrs Paulson spots us through the window of her office, and, a moment later, runs out of the building.

“Where have you been?” she exclaims, skittering to a halt just in front of us, “Have you any idea how much you’ve worried everyone? I’ve had to call all your parents! I was on the verge of calling the police!”

Gordon frowns, and mimes trying to put the lid on a jar, missing, then trying again, and missing again. Then he blinks hard. “Wait, shit, Miss, what did you tell them?”

“Language,” Mrs Paulson says, tutting. “I told them what I knew, that you four had gone missing from Maths class, and nobody had any idea where you’d be.”

“Oh, thank fuck,” Gordon whispers, swallowing hard. And then he bites his lip.

Mrs Paulson frowns. She’s noticed it, too, realised what Gordon just implied. “There’s something else I should have told your parents, isn’t there?”

“No, Miss,” Gordon says, much too quickly. He clears his throat, and looks around, eyes wild. He glances at the sky. “Interesting weather we’re having, don’t you think?”

I elbow Gordon in the ribs. “Tell her,” I whisper, but Mrs Paulson doesn’t seem to hear. I’m not even sure Gordon hears. I flick my eyes meaningfully from him, to her, to him, to her, and elbow him again. “Tell her,” I hiss again, more insistently.

“Nope,” Gordon squeaks, rubbing his neck and coughing into his hand. “Gosh, I could murder a lozenge.”

“Stop trying to change the subject, Gordon,” Mrs Paulson says, “If there’s something else going on, something else contributing to--” She waves her hand around in the air, as if she’s trying to encompass the whole situation, “--all of this, I need to know. You need to tell me...” She pauses, and puts a hand gently on his shoulder. “You need to tell me, or I can’t help you.”

He shakes his head. “I’m fine, Miss, honest. Just had a bit of a wobbly, that’s all.” He gives Mrs Paulson a great big grin. “I’d tell you if anything were wrong.”

I exchange a glance with Lena. I know we’re thinking exactly the same thing: Gordon is never gonna tell Mrs Paulson of his own accord; it’s down to us… but how on Earth can we take yet another choice away from him?

“Well, make sure you do,” Mrs Paulson says, “My door’s always open. Now, then, I need statements from all of you, so that I can get a clearer picture of what happened in your Maths class today.”

“I have a video,” Lena says, voice cracking, “Of what Chris said. Of what he did.” Her face twitches, and I know she’s remembering what happened right afterwards. What Chris said. What he did. “Well, some of it,” she adds.

“Well, “some of it” is a lot better than “none of it”,” Mrs Paulson says, forcing a smile. But that smile fades to a frown, and she shakes her head. “I really can’t tell you how sorry I am,” she adds, touching Lena’s arm, “But I’m going to do my very best to make sure Chris pays for what he did. He’s been suspended.”

Gordon snorts with laughter. ““Suspended”!” he repeats, scoffing, “Sure, and that’ll just give him time to plan whatever he does next time he takes exception to someone!”

Mrs Paulson tilts her head, and squints at him. “I’m not sure what you mean by that, Gordon. But Chris won’t have any spare time during his suspension. He’ll still have to come to school and do all his classwork and his homework; he just won’t be allowed to come to class. He’ll have to sit in the Support Department and do his work at one of the desks there, in isolation. He'll be supervised, don't you worry. He won't have a moment to himself.”

Now Gordon pretends to be hiding his laugh into a long, extravagant cough. It fools nobody, least of all Mrs Paulson and me.

I narrow my eyes, asking--mouthing--”Aren’t you gonna tell her?”

All Gordon does is shrug. All he does is shrug, and seem uncomfortably chipper for someone I had to drag--physically drag--out of class just over an hour ago. All he could do, then, was shake and sob and gasp against my shoulder, tears soaking into my jacket as memories flashed across the backs of his eyelids.

And now he has the perfect opportunity to tell Mrs Paulson--and maybe even get Chris put away, properly, for a long time--and he won’t? I clench my fists, hard. Doesn’t he know how much safer everyone would be if he just told the authorities? Doesn’t he know how many people are in danger, all the time he stays silent?

Fuck.

No, of course he doesn’t. He knows about me. He knows about Lena. And that’s it. And he only found out about Lena today, right after Chris triggered whatever he has, now. PTSD? I guess it could be. But it’s probably too soon to know for sure, right?

I squeeze my eyes shut, and drop the tension out of my fists, let it leak out of my forearms, my biceps, my shoulders, my neck, feel it drip from my fingertips like rain onto the concrete of the quad.

“Gordon, my dear, I know it’s difficult to believe, given how awfully he behaved today, but Chris is not unstoppable,” Mrs Paulson says, brushing one tail of her long, floaty scarf over her shoulder, “Me, I’m Head of Pastoral Care at this school, OK? That means it’s my job to look after all the students. And that includes you, just as much as it includes Lena, and everyone else.”

“Today,” Gordon repeats flatly. He nods. “Yeah. He’s been a dickhead today.”

Mrs Paulson tuts. “Language, Mr Benn. I’d rather not have to give you detention. I’ve plenty to deal with as it is.”

“Perks of your mate being outed,” Lena mumbles in my ear, “Take your chance now, Scott. Burn down the school.”

Now I’m the one snorting with laughter. “I would never!”

“I would,” Gordon growls, grinding his teeth and folding his arms.

“You’d what, Gordon?” Mrs Paulson tilts her head to the side, looking at him.

Gordon widens his eyes and blows out his cheeks. “Uh… I would… like to make a statement, please, Miss. About Chris. And all of this.” He gasps, and grins. “Oh, look, I’m a poet, and I didn’t even--”

“Yes, you fucking did,” Sophie says, trying really, really hard not to laugh. She loves a good pun almost as much as Char does, and loves a bad pun even more. But, unlike Char, she doesn’t show that love for Gordon’s puns while she looks daggers at him. It’s just the daggers.

I hear the words without Mrs Paulson saying them: “Language, Miss Wainwright!” but I see--and so do the others--how she pinches the bridge of her nose, and lets her shoulders sink in a heavy, heavy sigh. “Give me strength,” she mumbles, shaking her head.

“Sorry for saying “fuck”, Miss,” Sophie says, grinning, “But I’m afraid that Gordonitis is contagious.”

“Gordonosis,” Gordon corrects her. Then his face falls as he realises what she’s said, and swats her on the arm. “Oi!”

“That’s enough, thank you,” Mrs Paulson says, “Is everyone all right? Sophie, I understand you were pushed over. Were you hurt?”

“What?” Sophie blinks. “Oh, yeah, a bit,” she says, frowning slightly, “But I’m fine, now. I’d forgotten about it, actually, ‘til you said...” She shakes her head. “But I wasn’t just pushed over. Chris pushed me.”

Mrs Paulson nods. “Yes, that’s what people are saying, but I wanted to hear it from you. I need to hear all of it from all of you, actually, so please come with me. You can sit in the corridor and work on your statements. No conferring as you write, please. I want the truth, and I want it in your own words. You’ll be able to talk afterwards. I imagine it’ll be lunchtime by then.”

Gordon’s face lights up. “Oh, yeah, I’ve got a Twix!” he exclaims, clapping his hands. When Mrs Paulson gives him a quizzical look, he shoves his hands into his blazer pockets, and shrugs. “And some other stuff, I guess. Sarnies and that.”

Sophie wraps her arm around Gordon’s shoulder. “He’s still basically just a child, Mrs P. Can you blame him for finding joy in the little things?”

“Um… No…” Mrs Paulson is squinting a little. “No, no, I can’t. Enjoy your chocolate. But, for now,” she says, gesturing for us to follow her as she strides back towards her office, “I need your statements. Chop-chop.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

"Chris waited until Mr Mayes had gone out of the room to get photocopies, and then he started pretending to drown—coughing and spluttering—in order to upset Gordon," I write, glancing up the corridor at Gordon.

He's tapping his pen against the single-person desk where he's sat, and propping his chin up against an elbow and a fist. He seems OK.

I look back at my own statement, and wonder how much detail I should give. Can I explain why fake drowning noises upset Gordon so much? Or do I leave it nebulous enough that Mrs Paulson asks him what happened, so that he can tell her in his own way, on his own terms. Which he won't do.

Sighing heavily, I pick my ballpoint pen back up, and carry on writing. "Chris knew it would upset Gordon because he knows Gordon had an NDE—" No. Too vague. "Because he knows Gordon nearly drowned—" I squeeze my eyes shut. I cross it out, and tap my pen impatiently on the page, waiting for the right phrasing to occur to me.

Now I wonder if that's why Gordon's just sitting there—head in his hands by this point, fingers squeezing at tufts of his shaggy brown hair—because he can't find the words, either.

I grit my teeth and fight the overwhelming understanding of why he's so angry at Chris. I was furious with him to begin with, but I couldn't understand why Gordon wanted to hurt him back. Now I do. Because he's stolen confidence, he's stolen eloquence… and Gordon had so much of both. So much more to lose.

Fuck.

Knuckles whitening, I grip the biro so hard that I wonder for a moment why the plastic barrel doesn't just snap into splinters inside my fist. And I write. I write about today. I write about the lake. I write about Gordon's flashback, and how for a full minute, he even stopped breathing, just shook inside the circle of my hug, like he was having some kind of fit.

Chris did that. Chris did that, and whether or not Gordon's happy about it, school needs to know. It's already gone ten times too far.

I don't care that Mrs Paulson is a mandatory reporter. I don't care that she'll call the police. In fact, I want her to call the police. They should have been involved a long time ago.

"Chris attacked Gordon at Chase Valley Lake a few days ago. He waited until Gordon was in the water, and then jumped on him, and held him under, until other people—Charlotte, Lena, Sophie, Stefan, and Loretta were all there—made Chris stop. Etta pulled Gordon out of the water, but he had a bad nosebleed, and he wasn't breathing. Lena called an ambulance. Etta gave Gordon CPR. Chris ran off, and Sophie followed him," I scrawl, not giving a shit that my handwriting is all over the place. It looks like knives, angry slashes of ink across, across, across, until the page is full. "This is the incident Chris was alluding to, and it worked."

Once I've got the background down, I out the pen on my desk, and fold my arms, gripping my biceps hard with my fingers. For a few minutes, I sit there and breathe slowly, until I'm ready—until I've stopped shaking—to write the rest.

"I got Gordon out of the classroom and helped him through his panic attack. While we were outside in the quad, Sophie ran out and asked if we'd seen Lena. Then we saw Lena running across the school field. So we followed her."

A door opens loudly, and I look around to see Mrs Paulson poking her head out of her office.

I wave at her, and she hurries over, thick high heels popping against the lino floor of the corridor.

She crouches down beside my desk. "How are you doing with your statement?"

I turn the page around, and push it gently across the desk towards her. "I think that's everything," I mumble, "Some background stuff as well. For context."

I fold my hands in the desk and stare at my thumb-knuckles as she reads.

She's silent for a long time, and then I hear her swallow loudly. She looks up at me, and waits for me to look at her. "Is this true?" she whispers, furrowing her brow, "About the lake?"

Further up the corridor, I see Gordon look up, and turn around in his chair, to stare at us—at me—but he doesn't say anything, just glares. I guess he heard.

I nod. "Yes, Miss."

"And you saw this happen?" she asks.

"No, Miss. Lena told me about it, Miss. She saw it, and so did the others, the ones I named… but I didn't. I wasn't there. Nor was Tim." I how my head, staring at the desk. "You'll have to ask Gordon."

Mrs Paulson nods gravely, and gives me a quick, businesslike smile. It's earnest. Reassuring. "Thank you, Scott. You've done the right thing, telling me. I'll sort it out." With that, she gets to her feet, and strides up the corridor to Gordon's desk.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Gordon grabs my collar on the way to the bus stop.

(So that's what it means to "collar" someone. I guess I should have worked that one out before now, but, oh, well. You learn something new every day.)

I turn around to see him standing just behind me, face like thunder, shoulders squared, back poker-straight. "Oh, Gordy, thank God!" I exclaim, "I haven't seen you all afternoon! I've been worried. Are you OK?"

He sniffs loudly. "Don't know why you're acting all concerned, all of a sudden. You didn't seem to give a fuck about me when you were telling Mrs Paulson all about what Chris did to me at the lake, you fucking traitor!"

We've both carried on walking, but now we stop, Gordon folding his arms and raising eyebrows in impatience for a reply, me standing on the spot, getting pushed about by disgruntled comp students wanting to go home.

"You think I did that to betray you?" I exclaim.

"Fucking obviously," he snaps, "I've spent the whole afternoon—lunchtime, too, since you didn't ask—in Mrs Paulson's office, answering question after bloody stupid, inane bloody question, about Chris and Chase Valley Lake, and if all the rumours are true, and if your statement was accurate, and if I wanted to press charges! Which is the last thing I bloody want!"

"Gordon, if I hadn't told her, it would have been someone else! I probably wasn't even the only one that mentioned it. What happened in Maths today wouldn't make sense to her if she didn't know what happened at the lake. Think it through. Be reasonable. Please."

Gordon just shakes his head, spins on his heel, and stomps off.

I run after him, and catch his sleeve at the bus stop, just as the bus rolls up, but he shrugs me off. "Don't fucking touch me," he snarls, "Do not fucking touch me when I'm angry! Fuck you!"

"I'm sorry," I step back, stumbling on an uneven paving slab. I hold up my hands, like I'm surrendering. I guess I am. "I'm sorry, OK? Sorry for touching you, sorry for telling Mrs Paulson, sorry for getting school involved when I knew you didn't want it. I'm sorry." I shut my eyes. "There's no excuse. I was scared."

Gordon snorts with laughter. "You have nothing to be scared of," he replies coldly, "Nobody suspects a damn thing of you."

I don't know if I want to kiss him, to prove him wrong, or shove him in the chest, to get him back for that jibe. I stand there, shaking on the spot, for a moment, and then I go with the second option.

"Nobody suspected anything of Lena, either," I hiss, so that only he—and none of the chattering comp students around us—can hear, "And look what happened today."

"Yeah, look what happened!" Gordon jabs me in the chest. "You fucked up. And now I don't want to talk to you. Fuck off."

I chew my lip. "I've got to catch this bus," I mumble, not at all relishing the idea of being stuck in a glorified cupboard with him for the next twenty or so minutes. For once, public transport isn't the worst aspect of my journey home from school.

"You can walk," Gordon snaps.

I'm about to call him an idiot, but then it's my turn to step onto the bus, and the driver takes one look at the muddy legs of my school trousers, and my shoes, which look like I've stolen them from the ruins of Pompeii, and shakes his head.

"Not on my bus," the driver says, featuring for me to get off, "Sorry."

Gordon gives me a triumphant look. "Guess you really do have to walk and all," he says to me, stepping up to the bus driver with his pass.

"Next time you want to run a Tough Mudder," says the driver, "Get your own ride home."

"I'll pay extra," Gordon says, digging for the wallet in his blazer pocket.

"No, you won't," replies the driver, "You'll walk back to Chase Valley with your friends, here." He nods at me, and then to Lena and Sophie, who are by now standing at the stop as well. "Move along now, please."

Gordon glowers at the bus driver, turns around, and steps off the bus. "This is homophobia," he mutters, sticking his hands into his pockets.

Lena cocks her head to the side. "Is it, though? I think it has more to do with the dirt legwarmers we're all wearing, no thanks to you. How's that homophobic?"

As the bus drives off, Gordon gives her a withering look. "I'm gay and I want to ride the bus."

She throws her arm around his shoulder. "You'll live," she says, "You've got the Walking Bus, and it's first class all the at when you're travelling with lovely Scott and Sophie."

"Ugh," Gordon grunts, "I should never like to ride first class. That's where the bougies sit! Let me sit at the back, like the cool kid I am."

"Oh, do you want a piggy-back, then?" Lena asks, crouching down, with a grin.

"No," replies Gordon, sidling through the gate into the Wooler end of Chase Valley Woods.

"Good," says Lena, "I wouldn't have given you one."

She absolutely could have done, though. She's not exactly on the short side. And of course, Gordon is. Fun-size. On his good days.

Sophie—also fun-size, and the same one, at that, five-three—gives Lena a little wave. "Can I have one?"

Lena laughs. "Go ahead," she replies, leaning down still further so that Soph can climb onto her back, "Hold on right, now, and scream if you wanna go faster."

Sophie slings her arms around Lena's neck, and laces them together in front of her solar plexus. "Do you need me to hold your handbag for you?"

"Nah, I'm fine," Gordon mumbles, trudging through the thickening mud with her hands stuck in his blazer pockets.

Lena gives him an odd look, but then shrugs, pulls Sophie's legs securely over her hips, and canters off down the path.

The two of them beat us back to Chase Valley by about a mile, I think. They must do, if Lena does keep up that speed all the way.

I doubt she carries Soph much further, though. Being angry at me is distracting Gordon from what Lena and Sophie are making fairly obvious, with the piggy-back, but I doubt they'd be so lucky as to get away with it in Chase Valley.

People assume certain things when you ride into town on a lesbian.

I give Gordon a grin, and hold out my arms behind my back. "Fancy a lift?" I say, crouching down.

Gordon scowls. "Fuck off," he snaps, stomping off down the path.

I walk after him, but he glances over his shoulder, spots me, and breaks into a run. And I can't catch up with him. I don't know where his speed is coming from. I've never seen him run this fast before, never had to work to match his pace, or overtake him. Most of the time, I have to run a little slower than natural, on purpose, just to make sure he can keep up. On his fun-size legs.

"Please don't be angry at me!" I call, panting, "I only told her 'cause I was worried about you!"

Gordon doesn't answer, just groans loudly, and carries on running. He picks up speed. Rounds a corner.

Skitters down a gravelly slope. Skids to a halt on the beach at Chase Valley Lake.

I stop in the gap between two trees, and watch him from the higher ground.

He kicks the stones along the water's edge for a moment, and then drops to his haunches, crashing back into a hunched sitting position on the ground, putting his head in his hands.

No sound. It doesn't even look like he's breathing. And he's not moving, except for a tremor that erupts across his shoulders every ten seconds or so.

And then there's the sound of a sob, and Gordon's shoulders slump forward. Another sob. And another one. They skip across the air, like stones across the lake, and sink into the ground behind me.

He told me to fuck off. Those were the words he used. I don't think I can stand to see him crying on his own like this, and I certainly can't just walk away.

So what do I do? Call someone? Who would I call? I mean… Lena is the obvious one… but she's probably with Sophie, wherever they are… and while I'm sure they wouldn't show it, if they minded being called down to the lake to comfort a sobbing Gordon… I think they'd rather be doing other things.

And I'm here, anyway. And I'm the one that upset him. So it's my job to try to fix it.

"Gordon?" I say quietly, waiting until he turns his head to step closer.

His red face is streaked with tears, and his eyes are huge, his glasses smeared, and the ends of his tufty fringe are plastered against his forehead. He doesn't speak. He just turns his head back, and stares out across the lake.

I take another step closer. I'm almost whispering now, just voicing ever so softly, so that he can still hear. And so that I don't sound like I'm hissing at him. "I'm sorry," I say, "I should have thought it through. And I didn't. And I hurt you. And I'm sorry."

Gordon doesn't turn around, but he doesn't turn away either, even when I slowly sit down next to him. But he doesn't speak. Just stares over the water, at the quiet ripples lapping the shore.

"You don't have to forgive me, and I'm really sorry if stuff gets worse for you at school, now. That'd be my fault, too. But I promise you. I promise you, I never meant to hurt you. I only did it because I care, Gordon, because I worry about you, and what might happen if you keep trying to deal with this on your own." I put my hand down softly on the fine gravel. "If you want me to go away, please say. But if you don't say anything, I'm gonna stay here, and make sure you're all right, OK?"

He doesn't answer. But he does take a deep, slow breath, and glance at me for a moment, before looking at the other side of the lake again.

"If I've lost your trust, tell me so. And then tell me how to get it back, Gordy. Because there's nothing I want more tha to be able to protect you."

Gordon looks at me sorely. "You tell me how I'm supposed to trust you again, after what you did."

I nod. "You're right. This isn't for you to fix. But if there's anything I can do make amends… if you can think of anything… anything at all."

He stares at me. Blinks. "Make me believe you care about someone other than Lena in this situation."

I freeze.

Shit. I see exactly how it looks. How have I not seen it before? I was all for a quiet, peaceful solution where Gordon could choose when he reported it, as long as he did report it. And then Chris outed Lena and suddenly I was telling Mrs Paulson everything Gordon wanted to keep quiet.

"I'm sorry," I whisper, rubbing the heel of my hand against the fine stray hairs between my eyebrows. I squeeze my eyes shut, and sigh. "I promise you, it's not that Lena… oh, God, what's the word? It's not that she outranks you, or… whatever else you might be thinking—"

"That's exactly what I'm thinking," mutters Gordon, hunching his shoulders more tightly. He looks like he's made of stone, a stubborn piece of metamorphic rock. All the heat. All the pressure. What else would he be?

"I know," I whisper, "And that's my fault, and I'm sorry. It's not that Lena is more important than you. You’re both important. You both matter. You both matter, so much. It's that both of you together are more important than is either one of you alone. Can you understand?"

Gordon's chin juts forward as he turn to look at me again. "But Lena does outrank me," he says, "Of course she does. She's your ex. And it's not like she was the one that got dumped. Sorry." He winces, realising maybe some of his harshness. "Sorry, that sounded mean. But…" He furrows his brow. "Unless you're gonna tell me you were each bearding for the other… it's kind of the most obvious explanation. That you were her beard. And nobody's that good an actor. Everyone knows you genuinely loved her when you were together."

Oh, isn't that the truth?

"And that kind of love…" Gordon shakes his head. "It doesn't just go away. And you can't fake it."

I nod. "I know. So…" I don't know if there's another way to do this, any way at all to do this with saying what I've been struggling to understand, this last week, even though… even though I've never been more certain of it.

"So what?" whispers Gordon, "All you're telling me is that I'm right, that this didn't really matter to you until Lena was the one in danger. And that Lena being in danger was a good enough reason for you to put me in danger, too.”

“I never wanted to put you in danger,” I say, settling my hand into the gravelling sand between us. “But you are in danger. We all are. And it’s not just about you anymore. It can’t be.” I watch his face carefully in the silence that follows. “Mrs Paulson wants to help. You know she does. And I only want to help.”

“And my Mum?” Gordon’s shaking, shivering, almost, as if it’s a cold day, but the summer heat hangs over the lake like a thick fog. He looks at me, and blinks more tears down his cheeks. “Do you think she’ll want to help? She doesn’t even know I’m gay. And what’s the first she’ll hear of it, now?” He takes a trembling breath.

I nod. “I know,” I say, reaching out and touching his shoulder. And this time he doesn’t flinch, so I bow my head, and give in to my own tears. “I’m sorry. For whatever happens now. I’m so sorry, Gordy.”

“I know,” Gordon whispers, pressing his forehead against mine. And then he wraps his arms around my shoulders, and hugs me so tightly I wonder if my bowing ribs might snap. Gasps escape his throat as he cries against my neck, and his tears soak into the collar of my shirt.

I pull Gordon close, and stroke his hair, shushing him gently like I did to get him through his panic attack earlier. God, I hope this isn’t another one coming on. But I think that hope’s pretty much doomed.

How far are we sitting from the spot where it happened? I don’t know which beach it was; Lena didn’t say. And how do I ask Gordon something like that without coming off as some kind of morbidly-curious rubber-necker? It’s not like I need to know. But maybe I do need to get Gordon away from here and into a place where he feels safe as quickly as I can.

I blink as the full stupidity of that understatement hits me. Yeah. Just maybe.

“Come with me,” I mumble, stroking Gordon’s shoulder, “I don’t think this is the best place for you to be right now. Too many bad memories. Come with me, come back to my house, and I’ll fix you something to drink. Maybe some tea?”

Gordon pulls away, wipes tears on the cuff of his school shirt, and nods, managing a half-smile. “Tea would be lovely,” he mumbles back.

Together, we walk back to Chase Valley Road, and I glance at Gordon’s house as we go into mine. His Mum’s car’s not outside, but, then again… that’s not necessarily a good thing. If she’s here this evening--in Chase Valley--then she’ll want to have a big, important conversation with Gordon, which will only upset him, or, worse, she’ll screech back to work in the Focus they’ve given her as her unmarked car, and demand a case be opened against Chris immediately.

Which, to be fair, wouldn’t be the worst thing in the world. At least it would prove to Gordon in some tangible way that his Mum does care about him. That someone does care about him, no matter that he’s having a hard time, believing he’s worth it.

"Go up to my room and make yourself comfy," I say, as soon as the front door's closed behind us, "I'll be up in a moment with a pot of tea. And some biscuits?"

The corner of Gordon's mouth curls up. The beginnings of a smile. "Do you have Party Rings?" he asks softly, hand on the ornament a the end of the bannister.

"I'll see what I can do," I say, grinning and ruffling his hair as he makes his way up the stairs.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When I get back up to my room with a tray of tea and bourbon biscuits, Gordon has kicked off his school shoes, and is sitting on the edge of my bed, knees drawn up to his chest, arms wrapped around them.

"Couldn't find any Party Rings, Gordy, sorry," I say, setting the tray down on the wheel-legged table in the middle of my room. As I sit down next to Gordon, I pull it toward the bed, and open my arms to him. "Do you want a hug or a biscuit first?"

"Well, assuming that means I can't have both…" Gordon leans toward me and pushes his head against my shoulder.

He's not as light as he looks, I don't think. He's got that sleepy weight about him, that brings the events of the day back all at once.

They hit me like waves in a storm, and suddenly I'm clinging to Gordon like a limpet to a rock, sobbing and stroking his hair, just as if I’m the one who’s living in the shadow of terror at school and indifference at home.

“Hey,” Gordon says, stroking my back as he wraps his arms around me. He pats the space between my shoulders in the rhythm of a calm heartbeat, and shushes me softly. “Hey,” he says again, turning his head to look up at me. “Hey, Scotty. What’s the matter?”

“I’m sorry,” I blub, trembling.

“What’s up?” Gordon asks, pulling away from me slightly, so that he can wangle his legs underneath him, kneeling up to rest his forehead against mine. He cups my cheek with one hand, the other arm still curled around my waist. “Scotty?” His voice cracks, and his eyes are pink with tears again.

I stare at him.

What do I say, now? I used to have some idea of how I might tell him one day.

Some late evening, with the sun sinking orange over the horizon, and pink and purple clouds drifting over the sky. A beautiful sunset, like the ones we had when that volcano in Iceland spent half a spring erupting.

I used to picture it at the lake. Or at the boathouse, maybe. On the bridge?

But the sun won’t go down for ages yet, quite a few hours; we’re so close to the solstice that the nights feel about five minutes long, and days last about a century each.

And of course I couldn’t tell him this at the lake. The lake is… “Damaged” is the wrong word. It’s too weak. It’s something worse than that, but… I look at Gordon, and I think of all the words he knows, and how incredible he is at joining them together, just-so, and I think of how we nearly lost him at that lake, and I think of how I nearly lost him at that lake, and I think of how he nearly… never found this out.

And how much danger we’re in. Both of us. Both of us, and Lena, and Sophie. And I think of how Lena and Sophie are taking their chances now, so that they will at least have something to be happy about.

I couldn’t tell him this at the lake. But I can tell him. And so I have to tell him.

I drink in the air, sustenance against the push of getting these words out. “Gordon, I… I really meant it. When I said you and Lena both matter.”

He nods. “I know,” he whispers, stroking my hair. “I know you meant it. And I’m sorry I lashed out at you.”

“It’s OK now,” I say, “You were scared. It’s OK to be scared--we’re all scared--and--”

“We’re all scared,” Gordon says, “Yeah, we are. But we don’t all lash out at each other, and it’s not OK that I did.” He pulls away, rubs his thumb over my cheekbone, wiping away my tears. “Scotty, there’s something I’ve got to tell you.”

“Tell me, then,” I say, relaxing my arms a little, so that Gordon can sit up straight.

He shakes his head. “You, first,” he mumbles, taking off his glasses and polishing the lenses on the fabric of his shirt. He puts them back on, all clean, free of tear-stains, and gives me a reassuring smile. “Go on. You were gonna say something before I butted in. And I’m sorry for that, too.”

I swallow hard. “Gordon… um… ” I squeeze my eyes shut. “Please don’t feel any obligation to stick around, once I’ve said this. I can understand… it’s the sort of thing that takes a lot of processing… and the reason I’ve kept it quiet for so long… is that I feel like it could…” I blot more of my tears against the cuffs of my shirt. “It could screw things up between us. But at the moment I’m scared something will happen to one of us--or, worse still, God forbid, both of us--before I can say it. And I need you to know.”

Gordon nods. “You’re bi. I know. You told me, remember?”

“I know,” I say, “I know. Of course I remember. But that’s not...” I shake my head. “That’s not what I’m trying to tell you. That’s, like… only the background.” I sigh. “You know I actually loved Lena. Still do love her. And you remember how I said you and Lena are both really important to me?”

His brow is slightly crinkled. His eyes are fixed intensely on mine, as if I’m a book he’s struggling to understand. But he nods.

He’s trying. This is the Gordy I know. The Gordy I love. Have loved for years. My Gordy. And I owe him the truth, no matter how difficult it might be to tell.

“Yeah. Well...” I know I should be making eye-contact right now, but I find myself looking away, talking to an Avicii poster in the corner of my room. Not that I feel the same way about Avicii. He puts out banger after banger, and I’ve heard he’s lovely. But I’ve never met him, so… how can I… How could I say that…

“I feel the same way about you as I do about Lena,” I whisper, shutting my eyes so that I don’t have to see Gordy’s face as he takes in what I’ve just said.

Fucking Hell. I actually just said it.

And I’m just realising what that means… feeling that huge weight dissolve from my shoulders… when I feel a pressure against my lips. And when I open my eyes, I see Gordon’s flutter closed, as he kisses me.

And I cup his cheeks, and kiss him back.

Chapter 21: Communion: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Assault

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
As I pull away from Scott, I study his face through foggy glasses.

Ah.

Hadn't thought about those, and what might happen if I got them very close to someone else's face. I guess at least we don't both wear glasses?

Scott's eyes are half-closed, eyelids fluttering. He licks his lips just slightly—a quick dip inwards, and then back—and looks at me. "You?" he breathes.

"Yeah," I whisper, nodding as I grin, still cupping his face. "I love you, too."

"Why didn't you say something earlier?" Scott asks, and it's all I can do not to burst out laughing.

As it is, a giggle slips out, and I shake my head. "I could ask you the same!"

Scott smiles. "Didn't think you'd be interested."

"Have you seen yourself? Have you met yourself? Why would I not be interested?"

God, his eyes look like Earth from orbit, swirls of green within blue. Dark blonde eyelashes framing them.

And now they're full of tears again.

"Oh, hey, no, don't cry!" I scold him, tapping him on the nose with the tip of my index finger. "Unless those are happy tears, in which case, like, cry me a river or something, but—"

"They're happy tears," Scott says, nodding, "I'm just… so glad I told you. And that you feel the same. And that you're here for me to tell." He pulls me close again, but not for a kiss this time, just to hold me very, very tightly, as if he's not entirely sure how to let go.

"Hey, no, where else would I be?" I thump him on the back a few times, scrubbing my palm against the yoke of his shirt. "Where else would I be?"

He gasps and gulps. "We nearly lost you, Gordy. Soph… Soph thought you were dead—Tim told me so—and Etta…"

I nod. "I know," I whisper, "But I didn't die. And I'm here, now, OK? And I'm sorry for the shitty things I've said. And done, especially to you."

Scott pulls away a few inches, shaking his head. "You were under a lot of stress. You still are."

Oh, God, no, Scotty, don't let me off the hook like that. I've been treating my friends like toilets. Not literally, but very much in the figurative sense: "Here, deal with my shit."

I shake my head. "That doesn't make it OK," I insist, "And I really am sorry." I rest my cheek against his chest. "Don't let me get away with it if I do it again, please, Scotty. Call me out on it. Hit me if you have to."

"I'm not hitting you," Scott says sharply, "Don't ask me to hit you."

"If it's the only way to shut me up—"

"No!" he exclaims, "Absolutely not! Listen to me, Gordon." He grips my arms and makes me look at him. He shakes his head. "I'm not ever going to hit you. I refuse. Do you hear me?" He bows his head. "How can you even ask me to?"

I mean. I kind of deserve it. I tell him so.

Scott hugs me again, and strokes my hair as he kisses my forehead. "No, you don't," he insists, "And whoever told you that was wrong."

I raise my eyebrow. "My Mum?"

He sighs, and shuts his eyes. "Has she ever—"

I wrap my arms around his waist, and squeeze. "Never mind. Don't wanna talk about her right now. This is about us."

Scott doesn't say anything for a moment. But then I feel him nod—his chin brushes my hair—and he hugs me, rocking us gently from side to side. "We've got to talk about that at some point," he says softly, "But when we talk, that's up to you, OK?"

"OK." I catch myself laughing. It's too good not to. I look up at Scott. "Hey, maybe "OK" will be our—"

"Don't you dare," Scott says, bending to kiss me again. His nose bumps against mine, and we both collapse, giggling.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Mum's at the kitchen table, waiting for me, when I get in. As soon as I've umped my hip against the front door to close it, she—glaring at me from her spot in the kitchen—snaps her fingers and gestures for me to take a seat opposite her.

I furrow my brow, and tilt my head to the side. If I ask what this is about, she'll have a go at me for playing ignorant. If I start trying to explain, whatever I tell her about what Chris did—or didn't do—she'll fly off the handle, and it'll turn out she wanted to talk about something completely different. And then I'll have two fucking catastrophes on my hands.

So I grit my teeth, hoping it's not visible, as I sit down. A patch on my chin feels hot, so I cover it with my hand, in case it's red to boot. Last thing I want's to have to explain a snog rash to my Mum. God, even the notion. Ugh.

"Sit up straight," Mum commands, "And get your elbows off the table. Where do you think you are?"

"Sorry," I mumble, sitting bolt upright, except to bow my head.

"That's better," Mum says, sipping at her coffee. There's a long moment of silence—during which the thought of getting scolded for interrupting quashes my temptation to speak—before Mum bumps her coffee down on the table, and glowers at me. "Well?!" she snaps, "I'm waiting!"

I flinch. ""Waiting", Mum?"

"Yes," she snaps, "Waiting for you to explain why I had a call from Wooler Water Comp at my desk this afternoon! From Mrs Paulson, in fact. And what do you think she told me?"

Lowering my eyes, I stare at the table, and my shoulders tense. "Did she tell you about Chris?" I say quietly.

"Yes!" Mum shouts, slapping her palm down on the tabletop, "She told me Chris tried to kill you! Why is this the first I'm hearing of it?!"

Oh, I don't know, Mum. Because you're yelling at me for it? Because you've ambushed me to talk about it? Because your face is purple, and that bright blue vein in your temple looks ready to explode?

Huh. Can't imagine.

"Well, go on!" she shouts, "Explain yourself! Why didn't you tell me when it happened? How do you expect me to help you if you don't—"—and now she punctuates her words by smacking her hand on the table again—"—tell me when you need help?!"

"Because it didn't happen!" I say quickly. If it works… It'll work, right? If it works, if she believes me… everything will be fine. I need something to slow down my heartache and quieten the ringing in my ears (gin comes to mind, but the sun's still up). "It didn't actually happen," I mumble, my voice sounds distant. Muffled. Like I'm hearing myself speak through a wall. "It's just a rumour that's going round. We fell out, and, yeah, we had a fight, but… nobody tried to kill anyone." I pinch the edge of the table, gripping it as I try to stay upright.

(Shit, shit, shit… what's going on?)

"It's just a rumour?" Mum repeats, eyebrows raises, "Will your friends say the same thing, if I phone around and ask?"

I frown. "You have my friends' numbers?"

"I can look them up in the phonebook," she replies flatly.

"Oh. OK, then." I swallow hard, and force myself to look at her, and nod. "Yeah. Yes, they will."

"Good," says Mum, "Next time there's a rumour going round, I'd appreciate it if you let your teachers know it's a rumour before they disturb me at work." (As if I haven't spent the whole afternoon, trying to do exactly that.) "I had to leave in the middle of something very important, and now I shall have to start it all over again tomorrow, and it's all been for nothing." She sighs heavily, and shields her eyes with her hand. "Now go to your room. I'm sick if the sight of you."

I nod, push back the chair, and hurry upstairs with my rucksack dangling off my shoulder.

Once I'm up in my room, I swing the door shut behind me, and dig my phone out of my blazer pocket. Yeah, Mum, all my friends will say it's just a rumour… because I'm sending a cheeky little text to all of them, telling them to.

It only takes about a minute, which I doubt is time enough for Mum to find the phonebook, let alone crack it open and track down a number. Actually, thinking about it, she might have a few of my friends' parents' numbers stashed in her mobile.

Shit.

Hadn't thought of that. I guess I'll just have to hope against hope that I've got to my friends before she has.

Sidling across my room to the window, I dump my bag on the floor, pick up my guitar, and haul up the sash, so that I can sit on the sill and play.

"Oh, hey, there," Scott calls across the street. I look over to see him propped up on his elbows, and guess he's kneeling on his bedroom floor. (Was he waiting for me?) "I was wondering when you'd come up," he says. (Yes. Oh… I'm fine…)

I smile, and hook one of my legs over the windowsill, so that I'm safe, and won't fall either backwards onto my bedroom floor, or forwards onto the cobblestones below. I'm beautiful, but I doubt I'd still be beautiful, reduced to a wodge of strawberry jam.

"Mum wanted a little chat," I reply, pulling the strap of my guitar over my head.

Scott's eyes widen, and he chews his lip. "Everything OK?" he signs. I guess that's one good thing. Mum won't get that bit, won't realise Scott knows… Scott knows it might not have been OK.

"Yeah, I just had to explain that rumour." I wink, exaggerating it so that it's clear, even across the street. Can't risk Mum overhearing an emphasis in my voice.

"Oh," Scott says, nodding, and winking back, "Yeah, I can't believe people are spreading it round. So random, even before you consider, like, the implications." He forces a smile, and pulls his phone of his pocket. Types something.

And then my phone pings, and I see the message he's sent.

"Come to Kirky with me," it says, "We can go and see Nicks, have a lil bit of coffee, and a smidgen of cake. Pls? My treat. Am home ALL ALONE—say "poor Scotty!"—and am craving snacks and adventure."

I read the text, and grin. I text Scotty back, to say I'll be down in about a minute, and then change quickly into my school clothes—more than a trifle sweaty, try an entire sweet buffet—and into jeans and a fresh T-shirt. (Not "fresh" in a saucy way. The T-shirt is on my body, not Scott's floor. (For now. (I didn't say that. (Yes, I did. (And it might actually be true, now. (Oh, wow… I just… oh, my god.))))))

As soon as I'm ready, I grab my wallet, stick it into my jeans pocket, and bound down the stairs to the front door.

"And where do you think you're going?" Mum demands from the lounge.

"Just out with Scott," I say, "We're popping up to Scotland for a cup of coffee and some cake."

Yeah. It does strike me that a sentence like that one is probably quite exciting to people living outside Chase Valley. Going to a whole other country for a snack with a snack? Kind of loses its novelty when said country is only a few miles away.

If it weren't for all these bloody trees making me feel like I live in the middle of goddamned Narnia, I'd probably have a clear view of Kirk Yetholm from my bedroom window. Just over the roof of Scott's house.

Mum sighs so heavily that it's loud I the hallway, but then she grumbles, "I suppose I can't stop you. Be back before dark. And remember you have school tomorrow."

"Thanks, Mummy," I say, slaloming out the door before she has a chance to change her mind.

"My dear chap!" I exclaim, strolling to the middle of the street to meet Scotty, "All right, let's bop!"

Scott snorts with laughter, digs his hands into the pockets of his khaki chinos, and sidles up to the High Street, next to me.

Chapter 22: Shepherd: Lena
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Homophobia.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.
*Note: The discussion of homophobia in this chapter leads to things being OK for the character subjected to it. Ultimately it is a positive discussion.

Chapter Text
A single, amber drop of freshly brewed tea trickles down the spout of our best teapot, and soaks into one of the crocheted doilies Mum likes to make. I stare at the tea, soaking bold gold-brown into the white cotton stitches, and swallow hard. That might not come out.

Unlike a certain someone—me—this evening.

Sitting around the dining room table, with my brother, Archie, and Father Matthew sitting either side of me, and my parents sitting opposite.

"Oh," says Dad, "Well. What does that, um… mean, exactly?" He looks at me, sips his fresh cup of tea, and flinches as it sears the tip of his tongue. "Too soon, too hot," he mutters, putting it back down on the coaster in front of him. "Sorry. Um…" He frowns. "I'm just… I'm just not sure what this means for you, like…" He looks at Mum, and says something in Polish, and she furrows her brow.

"Do you mean "excommunication"?" she asks.

I freeze. Was I stupid to think they'd accept it, accept me, just because Father tells them to? I stare at the tablecloth and hope quite literally to God that Father Matthew will says something, because I don't think I can make so much as a squeak right now.

But it's my brother's voice I hear. "Don't be so bloody stupid," he snaps at our parents, "No way would our Church do that. How would that fit in with "hate the sin, love the sinner"? Of course Lena's not getting excommunicated."

Dad swats Archie's elbow. "Language!" But then he looks at Father Matthew. "Is that right?" He frowns. "I mean… it sounds about right, doesn't it? As long as Lena doesn't…" He clears his throat, and the top curves of his ears turn pink. "As long as she doesn't act on it, she can still be Catholic, yes?"

Father Matthew nods . "Almost right," he replies, "She certainly can be Catholic, still. But she doesn't have to abstain from anything more than anyone else should abstain from. What's usual outside marriage, if you will."

Archie crosses himself, and presses his crucifix pendant against his lips, grimacing and turning scarlet.

I look the other way, and force myself not to acknowledge it. I know what that meant (crikey) and I will definitely be goading him about it later, but only once Father Matthew has gone. Because I'm a good sister. But he's also a bloody brilliant brother.

"Oh," Dad says, "I didn't know that."

Father Matthew nods. "That's understandable. There are a lot of misconceptions about what the Bible does and doesn't allow. And some Churches are still—" he shakes his head, "—intolerant, but they're misguided. The Church of St Andrew Corsini is accepting. In fact, I would be happy to bless a same-sex wedding, but… some things are still up to a higher power. Rome. Old ideas held up by misunderstanding at best, malice at worst. But rest assured, please, rest assured that you and your family are still welcome at St Andrew Corsini, and you always will be." He smiles. "And the same goes for your girlfriend."

"Ooh!" Archie crows, nudging me with his elbow, "You've got a girlfriend?! You cheeky knave, you've never let on you were seeing someone since you broke up with Scott!" He pauses. "Also, I'm guessing he was your beard?"

"Mm-hm. But… yeah… that's why I came out this evening. 'Cause I'm seeing Sophie. And Chris found out. And he outed me for it."

Mum crosses herself. "Oh, your poor girls," she whispers, reaching for my hand across the table. "What can we do? To keep you safe, what can we do?"

Archie cracks his knuckles and sets his jaw. "You can remind me which house is Chris'," he growls.

"Ah-ah-ah, I'm not sure that's a good idea, Arkadiusz," Dad says, putting his hand on Archie's shoulder, "This is for school to deal with." He frowns. "You say he outed you? Not Sophie?"

I shake my head. "Only me. He saw our texts on my phone. He knew they were from a girl, but we don't use each other's real names. Confirmation names, you know, and so… obviously he knew they were mine, but he didn't know they were hers as well."

"Is this why I had a missed call from school?" Mum says, "There was a message, too, but it was garbled, and all crackly, and… I didn't pick it up until I got home from work anyway, and then—"

"—And then I said I wanted to talk to you," I finish, nodding, "Yeah, that was probably it. Soph did say I could tell you," I add quickly, "I did check; it's OK."

Archie grins. "Aw, my little sister's all grown up and gaying about!"

I snort with laughter. "Sure, yeah, and that's exactly how I'll put it on my CV." I chew the bits of toughened skin around my thumbnail, and frown. "But Gordon only came out in the first place because he wanted to set up a GSA, so… That's a "gender sexuality alliance" or a "gay-straight alliance". If we could get permission to set one up—we'd have to talk to Mrs Paulson, but I'm sure she'll say "yes"—then we could have an official group of peoole, all standing up for each other. A real show of solidarity, of community. I can't imagine she'll say no, after all the stuff that's been happening recently " I nod. "Yeah, I'm gonna suggest to Gordon that we go ahead. We can go and see Mrs P first thing in the morning."

"I'll come with you," Archie says, "And I'll get Tetty to come with me." He wrinkles his brow. "Is it true that Chris… you know…"

"Went after Gordon?" I finish for him, and swallow hard. "I called the ambulance myself."

Archie sighs, and wraps his arm around my shoulder. "I'm sorry," he says, "And I want you to know: nothing like that is ever gonna happen to you. I promise. If Chris gets within sight of you, I'll set him on fire."

Mum coughs loudly. "I think you will not!" she says firmly, "If Chris bothers you, Lena, you tell one of us—me, your Dad, Father Matthew, or your teachers, if you're at school—right away." She tuts at Archie. "You know very well that's not the way to resolve things."

"Has Gordon gone to the police about it?" Dad asks.

But I shake my head. "Don't start. We've all tried to persuade him, but he wouldn't even listen to Scott, and they're like that." I cross my fingers.

Father Matthew shakes his head. "It can be difficult to admit you need help from others. It can feel like weakness, or like you're giving in, and…"

"Gordon wouldn't give in to anything on "anything"'s birthday," I reply, "He barely backs down until Char threatens to tear off his arm and beat him round the head with the soggy end."

"Yeah, the Benns are like that," Archie says, smirking, "Tetty invented being stubborn. Or, at least, she'll insist she did until everyone else admits defeat."

"Ah," I say, a grin warming my face, "Then I think we might have some very persuasive people on our side when we go and see Mrs Paulson tomorrow."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

"Ew, no, darling, not tomorrow," Gordon says when I call him late that night, "Me and Scotty aren't even on the way back from Kirky. Once I've finished paying Hell for that, I doubt I'll be getting to sleep until about midnight, and… getting up even earlier than usual after that? I don't care if we're opening a strip club, I'm not doing it tomorrow."

"Aw, cute!" I say, sitting down on the arm of the nearest settee and fiddling with the fringe around the lamp—the only thing still lighting the living room—"Are you having fun?"

"I'm always having fun," Gordon replies, and I think I can hear Scott chuckling in the background. Gordon pauses. "Except when I'm having a—"

"Do not say it," I interrupt, "I do not want to know!"

"Oh, yeah, yeah, you're Catholic, of course," Gordon says slyly, "How did I forget?"

I cross myself and try not to think about what he was going to say before I slammed on the brakes. And what made him jump to thinking I'd be offended because I'm Catholic…

It doesn't work, and I have to shudder very quickly and vigorously in order to avoid being sick all over the rug.

"Anyway," I say, "You're right. And tomorrow's too soon, anyway. We've got to gather a whole bunch of people together if we're gonna convince Mrs Paulson that people are interested. We need time."

"Time to muster the Gay Army, yes." He gasps. "Or the R-Gay-F! Oh, I am a genius on occasion!"

"Very lonely occasions!" Scott butts in, "Bonsoir, Szczeppi, you're on speakerphone!"

“Oh, that’s nice,” I say brightly, “How about you call me Szczeppi one more time, just to see what happens?”

Scott snorts with laughter. “Ah, Szczeppi, but you’re in such good company! We have Benn-jy, here, and--ow--Nicksy, and--”

There’s a clumsy clatter, and suddenly Nicks’ voice is coming down the phone. “Hello, Lena, my dear, this is your good pal, Angus. How’s your evening coming!” A shriek, and another clatter at the other end of the line. “Oi!” Nicks shouts.

Gordon and Scott explode, giggling, in the background.

“Bastards,” Nicks mutters, “Anyway, since we’re apparently all coming out of the closet today--or, in Gordon’s case, out of the woodwork like a termite--” Nicks breaks off to laugh, and then--I guess--puts a hand over the phone mouthpiece, turning to talk to Gordon. “You are, you are! You ate almost a whole lemon cake! Where do you even put it? You’re, like, four-three, or something!”

“Five-three!” Gordon retorts, “And you’re one to talk, Mr Five-Foot-Fuck!”

Oh. Hang on. “Angus.” “Mr.” “Coming out.” Do I know what I’m about to hear? What Nicks is about to tell me?

“Go on,” I say, straightening my back and crossing one leg over the other. Nicks can’t see it, but I may as well look attentive. Because I am.

“I thought you might like to know I’m a gentleman,” Nicks says quickly, and in a terrible Southern accent, kind of like a soldier in a war film. Douglas Bader or something.

“Uh…?”

“I’m a trans guy, a trans man,” Nicks explains, talking in a normal voice again, smooth and deep, but with that same galloping brightness Gordon leaves on everyone he sees, like a snail trail. But charming. Fuck. Gordon does this simile-thing better than I do. So does Soph. But I’m getting side-tracked.

Back to Nicks. “So I thought you might like to know. ‘Cause, um, if I went to Wooler Water, I’d totally be down to join in, and, um. I mean, we’ve got one at school in Town Yetholm, so we thought--me, Gordy and Scotty--thought it might be a nice idea to have the two get in touch, maybe… I don’t know… hold socials together, and that?”

“Oh, yeah, that’d be lovely,” I say, nodding--for goodness sake, I’m on the phone, sitting on my own in the living room, so I have no idea why I nod--and smiling. I know why I’m smiling. “Yeah!” I say again, “Please, I mean, if you’ve got any tips for setting up a GSA, or things to do at meetings, please make sure Gordon writes them down, ‘cause I don’t have a pen handy. And he always has a pen stashed somewhere. Usually somewhere horrible. But we won’t get into that. You don’t want the scars, fam.” And then I remember what he--I’m guessing “he”--just said. “So, is your name still Nicks?”

“Yeah, yeah,” he said, “Like, “This is my pal, Nicks, he’s really cool and handsome and smart, and modest,” you know, the usual.” I think he’s grinning. “But also, my first name, I’m changing it to Angus. Angus McNicholas.”

“Like a nice Highland bull,” Gordon interrupts, and then he yelps. There’s a bang, and I guess his phone’s been knocked on the floor or something, because his next words are muffled, almost as if they’ve been sat on. “Damn it, you’re lucky you’re cute!”

“Handsome!” Angus corrects him.

“Handsome, handsome!” Gordon exclaims. “Now will you let go of my legs?!”

“Boys, boys, what are you thinking of?!” demands Scott, in a--still very muffled--schoolmarm voice, “Angus! Unhand Gordon at once!”

“Boys,” I say. What I mean is, “Men!”

Not that it’s super-relevant in relation to Gordon, but I’m very glad God made me a lesbian. God is good. God is an absolute G, as Tim’s said a few times.

“I meant it in a nice way!” Gordon protests, “I like Highland cattle! They’re good! And very strong!”

“And ginger!” Angus retorts, but even on my end of the phone, I can hear that he’s doing a bad job of sounding cross. I have a slight suspicion that it’s his giggling, giving it away, but… hmm. I’m not quite sure.

“You’re my favourite Highland bull,” Gordon says gently, “Thank you, Scotty. There, there, lil fluffy one. Lil Angus.”

I frown. “Where are you?”

“Angus' house, of course,” Scott says, “Visiting The Coffee Boy.”

“Yeah, see, now, that’s much better,” Angus adds, “Although my formal title is, of course, The Macchiato Man.”

“Of course,” I say, “OK, shall I leave you three to your little date, and I'll go and get ready for my beauty sleep?”

"Oh, yes, do," Gordon says in a voice I can only describe as rudely-urgent, "I'll see you tomorrow. Say hi to your gorgeous Dad for me."

"I shall not!" I reply, ending the call before he can say anything else. With a shudder, I lock my phone and go upstairs to bed.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I sent out a handful of texts last night, just before I went to bed, telling everyone to meet me in the library at break.

I might as well have said, "meet me at the bus stop," because they're all there before I arrive, hooting and whooping and cheering as I come up to the bench and sit down.

Gordon makes a lil space for me on the seat, and he drapes his arm around my shoulder like an ermine cloak. "Ladies and gentlemen and Char, I consider it my highest honour to present to you all the eminent and delightful… His Holiness, Sir Lena Elisabeta Szczepanski, Lady of the Night, Walker of the Streets, Whore of the Valley—"

"Uh, watch it, Knave of the Cheviots," Sophie says, "Or I'll push you off the bench! That's my wife you're talking to!" She jabs Gordon in the shoulder with a sharp finger, and then blinks at him, expectantly, with her arms folded and one eyebrow raised.

Gordon pouts. "That's going to leave a fingerprint," he whines, miming a tear trickling down his cheek.

"I should hope so!" Sophie replies, messing up his hair, "You're an extremely cheeky bastard!"

"Excuse you," Scott says, "But Gordon is my wife. Fairly sure that means I've got to challenge you to a swordfight or, like, fisticuffs at dawn or something. Name your weapon."

Soph shrugs. "Fuck it, I'm going in with my sweet style."

Scott covers his face with his hands. "Oh, God, I don't stand a chance, do I?"

"Not at all," Gordon agrees, leaning on Scott's knees and grinning. "So, since we're all here," he says, beginning to sign along, so that Etta can see, "What did you want to talk about? There's no need to wait 'til break, is there?"

I look up and down the street, to check there's nobody listening in that might… I don't know . Be a dickhead in some way or other. I guess that's just as well.

Because I see Chris approaching, hands in his pockets, head thrown back, leading with his chin stuck out and his chest puffed up.

"I'll tell you at break," I reply quickly, before Chris gets close enough to overhear anything at all. I keep my eye on him even as I tell the others, "But it's potentially something quite nice. Even if it is one of Gordon's ideas."

I wink at him, and then snort with laughter as he swats me in the stomach.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Sophie arrives at the library a few minutes after I do, with Etta and Char escorting me. It was their idea, not mine—to be my bodyguards, in case Chris tries anything, not that there are any lakes handy, but… Wooler Water. Potentially a problem, apparently—but Soph arrives on her own.

Because honestly I think she almost wants Chris to have a go at her, so that she'll have a good excuse to bash him up. Which, if I'd thought of that earlier, I would've pointed out as a good reason for her to go with someone else.

Tim, maybe. The closest I've ever known him get to violence is one or two hugs that were just a little too tight, and made me reevaluate whether I should've asked for a "big hug, please, Timble," which for the record, I had. And Sophie mentioned something about his pinning Chris' arms yesterday, "to stop him being a tosser".

But she sidles up to the alcove on her onesie, and flops into one of the armchairs. "Aight," she says, grinning at me and twitching her eyebrows up in a way that makes it a bit difficult to breathe, "What are we all gathered here, for, then?"

Knave.

"Gordon's idea, actually," I say, "Of setting up a GSA at Wooler Water Comp. You know, to make sure everyone's safe. And to make sure people like Chris know they're the ones in the minority, sitting there hating everyone who's done bugger-all to them."

"Hmm, phrasing," says Gordon, from his perch on the arm of Stef's chair, "I'm not sure I want to bugger all—"

"Fuck's sake," groans Char, who's sitting on Stef's lap, and interpreting for Etta as usual, "You aren't gonna get me to put that into BSL, Gordon, you bastard, you can sign it yourself."

"Oh, mate, you don't have to—" Etta says, pawing Gordon's shoulder, just a second too late, as Gordon follows Char's instructions, and the rest of us all learn a lovely new sign.

"Oh," Etta says, "Thanks. Needed to know that." She bops Gordon on the nose. "Cheeky boy."

"Of course," Gordon says, and then he nods to me. "Carry on, Lena, my love."

"Thank. So, I was thinking we could do what Gordon said, go to Mrs P and get permission to set up a GSA. But we'll need a gaggle, quite a few people, so that she'll see it's worth it. So my brother and your sister, Gordon, they're happy to come along, and isn't Patrick's brother gay? Russell?"

Gordon frowns. "Uh, yeah. How are you forgetting that? Do you reckon we'll be able to get him to come, too? And Patrick, obviously."

Sophie flips open her homework diary and starts scribbling names on a lined page in the back, under the heading, "People who are not coming to my birthday party". When I look at her quizzically, she shrugs, and says, "Well, they're not. And I can't very well give it a name that'll give it away, but we need some kind of list, so that we know who to ask, and don't miss anyone."

I nod. "Very true. So, if we get Russell, Archie and Tetty to ask around Year Eleven, they should pick up quite a few other people to come along. And Etta—" I give her a wave, and sign slowly, because my BSL is hesitating at best, "Can you ask your sister? Ask her to bring friends."

"What about your cousin, Gordy?" Scott suggests.

But Gordon just splutters with laughter. "Scotty, you're my best mate and I love you, but Paul is a tosser, and I wouldn't piss on him if he were on fire, let alone get Sophie to uninvite him from her birthday party."

Sophie squints, obviously trying to work out what the Hell he means—oh, so just like the rest of us, the rest of the time—but at least Gordon's signing along as he speaks of, so Char doesn't have to tape together a sentence of stilted BSL.

"Who else?" Gordon says, "Obviously if you get Angie involved, Et, then she'll pass it round to the other Year Nines, but who else? Aside from Patrick, and everyone here…" He wrinkles his nose. "...I'm not sure so can think of anyone else in our class that would do it. Stand up for the LGBT Community."

I raise my hand, like I'm asking a question in class, and Gordon clicks his fingers and points at me. "Professor Lena Elisabeta Szczepanski!" he crows.

"Um, OK, first of all… Do you know my middle name isn't actually Elisabeta?" I say, which earns me a shrug and a grin and an indecipherable mumble from Gordon. "And… secondly… and don't say it's a stupid idea, because she's a lot nicer than anyone gives her credit for… Why don't we ask Ffion?"

Gordon bursts out laughing, much louder than anyone should laugh in a library.

Obviously there's no sign on the wall that says, "Please refrain guffawing like a donkey," but, you know. There's one that says, "Silence is golden," so I think it's implied.

"Oh, yeah, good one!" Gordon's face is bright red from exertion, "Who else have you got? The ghost of Margaret Thatcher? Zombie Ronald Reagan? Quick, someone, remind me. Who's the fourth horseman of the Homophobiapocalypse?"

"No, I'm not kidding," I say, just as Gordon hoots with laughter, and bellows, "How about Chris?"

Then his face falls as one of the librarians glares at him, and he turns back to me. "Cheeky girl, making me laugh so I get told off! Did you plan this?"

"No," I say, "I didn't plan it. I didn't mean to make you laugh at all. I was being serious."

Chapter 23: Antidisestablishmentarianism: Scott
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Homophobia (Very Brief).

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
Gordon's expression drops off his face. "Do you remember a minute ago, when you told me not to say your idea was stupid?" He frowns a little at Lena. "Do you not think there might be… a reason… you felt the need to say that?"

Lena folds her arms. "You tell me."

I chew my nails and watch them both, straightening my back, but leaning on the arm of my chair so that they won't realise I'm shaking. Already, my heart's starting to run, and I really wish it wouldn't. It's my heart's own damn fault it's freaking out here. Going all "conflicted" and "torn".

Fucking Hell. Things that can fuck off? That.

“Well, I should’ve thought it was obvious,” Gordon mutters, sighing heavily as though he’s trying to bring up one of his lungs, “I hate her, she hates me, we’re as happy as we can be. What did you expect me to say? You’re suggesting we ask her to tag along when we go to Mrs Paulson and say, “Can we have a gay old time in one of the classrooms?” Ffion’s a homophobe. There’s no fucking way she’d agree to it. So, yeah, actually, your idea is stupid.”

“You have no idea what she’s like,” Lena replies, “You’ve just got this picture of her, one that you yourself have drawn, and you’re basing your entire understanding of her off that one picture.”

“Yeah, for good reason! She’s a homophobe!” Gordon retorts, words slopping one over the other over the other, lazily, as if he’s an exasperated teacher, explaining something for the thousandth time to a student who just won’t think.

"She's not, though," Lena says.

Gordon laughs. "Lol, yeah, good one! When did you work that out, the third or the fourth time you overheard her telling me I was going to Hell?"

"No, actually, I worked it out when she caught me and my girlfriend together on a date," Lena replies, arms twisted into a fold so tight I'm expecting them to tear at any moment. Her eyes and voice are hard, determined, as she continues, "And she promised she wouldn't say anything. And she didn't."

"Oh, yeah, and when was this date?" Gordon smirks.

"This weekend just gone," Lena replies, "She saw us together, saw us actually kissing, like, there was no way we could deny it, and she actually… listened. Sure, there was the "going to Hell" bit at first, but the Bible doesn't actually say that. That's not what that verse means, and, as soon as we explained that to her, she was fine."

The urge to glance at Sophie to see how she's reacting to this anecdote is almost overwhelming, to the point where it feels like a knot in the middle of my chest. But I grit my teeth, and take deep breaths, and force myself to keep looking at Gordon and Lena.

And Gordon just laughs again. "Correct me if I'm wrong, but I'm fairly sure this weekend just gone was only…" He sucks in air through his teeth like a shifty mechanic swindling a customer out of a few hundred quid. "Only Saturday. Or Sunday, if you will. Not exactly a long time for her to keep a secret. All that proves is that Chris beat her to it."

Lena shakes her head. "No, you're not listening," she says, exasperated, "Ffion is only homophobic because she has no idea how else to be. But she's willing to learn, OK? I think a lot of it has to do with her background, and—"

"Well, that's no excuse," Gordon interrupts, "Just because her parents are homophobic, it doesn't give her the right to be homophobic, too. Look at me! My parents are homophobic, and I'm fine!"

I mean. Gordy. My sweetheart. You're not fine, are you?

Lena rolls her eyes. "Please be a bit sensible, if you can, Gordon," she mutters, pinching the bridge of her nose, and sighing, "You have, handy wherever you go and whatever you might happen to be doing, a great example of a gay man existing without hurting anyone—most of the time—and without any kind of higher power hanging over your head, telling you that you're dirty. You don't believe in God, so your parents are just about the strongest influence over you, and you hate them, so you don't listen to them. And then you've got all your mates, being fine with you being gay, except for Chris, and we all backed you up, freezing him out. If you'd ever had those kind of misconceptions about the LGBT Community, chances are, we'd have cleared them up by now."

Gordon considers this for a moment, and then nods. "Fair point," he mumbles.

"Exactly," Lena says, "So be fair. Ffion doesn't have anything to challenge what she'd been told. Or she didn't, until the weekend, when she found out about me. And you know something? The second she found out, more or less, she was asking questions, trying to learn, Gordon, trying to learn how to be more tolerant. Trying to learn how to be a better person. Does that sound like a committed homophobe to you, or does it sound like someone who's just been told to think one way, and not to question it?"

Gordon scowls at her, and it's not a friendly, joking sort of scowl. It's the scowl Gordon gives when someone else is right and he is wrong, and it's not a scowl I'd associate with any nice side of him. It's the side of him that makes me question a lot of things.

I swallow hard.

"You still can't really imagine she'll jump at the chance to join a GSA," Gordon snaps.

"No, I don't," Lena replies sharply, "But I don't think she'll spit in my face, either, Gordon. Trust me. Just because you think she's the spawn of Satan or whatever, it doesn't mean she actually is. Deep down, she's a decent person, and, quite honestly, I think she's only angry because she's lonely."

"Yeah, well, if she were a bit less of a bitch, maybe that would be a bit less of a problem," Gordon sneers.

"Don't call her that!" I exclaim, glaring at Gordon, "Bloody Hell, what is your problem today?"

Gordon bites his lip, and bows his head. "Not sure," he mumbles, "You're right. I'm being a dickhead. I'm being horrible, and I'm really fucking sorry." He looks Lena right in the eye, and nods. "I'm sorry."

Lena shrugs. "You're dealing with a lot. Probably a bit more than most."

"No excuse," Gordon says quietly, "I don't see you lashing out at anyone."

Only herself, I think, chewing the inside of my cheek. Sophie told me Lena tripped, running into the church yesterday. Didn't even notice the pain on her leg until Father Matthew pointed it out. Unless she was just quietly taking it, as some kind of "deserved" punishment. I've worried about her before.

"We've got our own different ways of dealing with things," Lena replies, "You're just not dealing with them in the best way right now, but you'll learn."

Gordon nods. "I will," he says, "I mean it." Now he looks around at all of us in turn. "Please call me out on it if I'm being a dickhead. It's my job to catch myself, but don't any of you sit there and take it, either. You deserve better. You all do." He sighs. "But I don't think we can trust Ffion, Lena, especially not right now. If she's as willing to listen as you say, she's obviously really impressionable. So what makes you think Chris won't get to her? Twist her, to get her on his side? Do you have any idea how fucked we'll be if that happens?"

Lena nods. "Yeah, obviously. Ffion knows who my girlfriend is, and, yeah, Chris could get that out of her." Her eyes meet Soph's, just for half a second, and I think we three are the only ones that notice. "But not if we tell her that might happen. Tell her what to look out for. Tell her to lie to him, if the worst comes to the worst."

Char puts her hand up. "I mean, she can tell Chris it's me, if she wants."

Stef stares at her, eyes wide. "Are you crazy?!"

"Oh, yeah, obviously," Char replies, "But I know Chris's scared of me, so I doubt he'll do anything serious. And maybe if he gets it into his head that Lena's got a scary girlfriend on side, he'll leave her alone, too." Char grins at Lena. "Besides, I reckon he'd be pretty impressed with me on your arm. I'm gorgeous."

Lena laughs. "You're not wrong. But you're not putting yourself in danger for me. Even if you're fine with it, I don't think your boyfriend is." She nods at Stef. "You look like you're about to keel over, sweetie," she says.

Stef shakes his head. "I'm fine," he murmurs, gripping the arm of his chair hard, "Just worried about all of you."

Char shrugs cheerfully. "It's fine. Nobody knows how many swords I have."

"That doesn't make me less worried!" Stefan squeaks, wrapping his arms around her waist and squeezing hard, "Please be sensible, Char," he mumbles into her shoulder.

Gordon tuts, and huffs, folding his arms and tossing his head. "I guess I don't get a hug, then," he mutters theatrically, "It's fine. I don't need one."

I pull my phone out of my pocket and tap a quick, "Yes, you do," to him. (That's a boy who's getting so many hugs as soon as I get the chance.)

Stef reaches up and slings an arm around Gordon's shoulder, hoiking him sideways so that he overbalances, and ends up snuggled awkwardly against Char and Stef.

"Oh, nice," Gordon says, grinning. I half-expect him to purr like a lil cat, but, sadly, he doesn't.

"So we're agreed, then?" Lena says, clearing her throat, "Gordon, are we agreed? We'll ask Ffion to come along?"

"I mean, I doubt she'll want to, but you can go ahead, if you really want, I guess," Gordon mumbles, shrugging, "Just don't blame me when she tells you to fuck off."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Lena doesn't get the chance.

When we get back to class after break, Ffion isn't there. And she doesn't turn up, either, just stays silently—and, as far as the rest of us are concerned, conspicuously—absent for the rest of the day.

Char keeps staring over at Ffion's empty space. And, God, I can see why. That table is Chris' as well, and, of course—and thank God—he's still suspended, languishing somewhere in the Support department. Where he belongs.

But where's Ffion? Surely she hasn't done anything. Nothing awful enough to get her suspended, at least. When I glance at Gordon, he's biting his nails. There's no trace of that triumphant grin he wore last time he managed to wind her up so badly that she slapped him.

But that was a year ago. I can only hope he wouldn't do something that horrible now, especially after the meeting at breaktime. But, then again, after the meeting at breaktime, I feel like I might have a reason to hope.

I like to think I'd still like Gordon if I didn't love him, but all I have to make me think I would… are our mutual friends. And we've had a lot of problems among us recently.

Maybe Ffion wants to fix things as much as I do, as much as Lena does, as much as Sophie must. And maybe that'll be enough for her to put aside her dislike—distrust, detestation—of Gordon, and help the lot of us. Even though that includes him.

Before I know it, I catch myself biting my nails as well, almost to the quick, and my heartbeat—which I didn't realise until now was galloping away like a cattle prodded horse—slows down.

If Gordon's biting his nails for the same reason as I'm biting mine, then… then, just maybe, everything will be all right.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

There something like a glimmer of hope after the end of Period Five, when the bell rings for hometime, and everyone's filing out of the classroom

Gordon stops by Mr Mayes' desk as he's tidying it. "Sir?" Gordon says, "Do you know where Ffion went after break? I didn't see her."

"Home, Gordon," Mr Mayes says, straightening the edges of a stack of papers, as I watch the two of them from the doorway.

"She went home?" Gordon says, raising his eyebrows, "Is she OK? Is she I'll or something? I'm happy to bring her any homework, Sir, I mean, we both live in Chase Valley. It wouldn't be that far out of my—"

But Mr Mayes shakes his head. "No, Gordon," he says cordially, "I meant, "Go home, Gordon." It's the end of the day and it's not for me to discuss where Ffion went. You don't need to worry about her." He frowns slightly. "And you don't usually worry about her. What's so special about today?"

“Oh, I, um… She lent me a book,” Gordon lies, the tops of his ears turning pink as he blushes. Jesus, for someone who keeps so much from his parents--and therefore, by extension, the literal police--Gordon’s really not good at lying to his teacher, is he? How he ever managed to convince Mrs P that everything was fine, I doubt I’ll ever know.

““A book”?” Mr Mayes repeats.

Gordon nods. “Yeah, um. She lent me a book. I wanted to give it back to her. ‘Cause, um. I finished it at break. And it’s one of her favourites, so. I figured she’d want it back as soon as possible.”

“Oh, well, that’s thoughtful of you,” Mr Mayes says, “Maybe you can drop it through her letterbox on your way home.” Then he furrows his brow. “I didn’t know you two got on, you and Ffion. Correct me if I’m wrong, but you seem to have some kind of… I don’t know if “vendetta” is too extreme a word, but I’ve never seen you two have a conversation that wasn’t just an excuse to trade insults.”

Gordon nods, and does his best to look sheepish. “Yeah, I know,” he mumbles, “We haven’t been very nice to each other, but we’re both trying. Don’t want to waste another year sniping at each other. It’s no way to be.”

Mr Mayes beams. “Well, that’s good. I’m glad to hear it. Now, then. Hurry to your bus.”

Chapter 24: Reconciliation: Ffion
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Disordered Eating (Food Insecurity).

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
My phone jangles as Mum and I get back into the driveway. I look in my blazer pocket, catch sight of the caller ID, and sigh.

“Aren’t you going to answer that?” Mum says, pulling into the driveway and yanking the handbrake upright, “It might be important.”

“It’s not,” I mumble, “It’s just Charlotte from school.”

“Oh, one of your friends?” Mum says, smiling as she unbuckles her seatbelt and gets out.

My phone keeps on ringing, and I press my hand over the outline it makes in my pocket, as if that might silence it. And, of course, it doesn’t. I cough. “Absolutely not,” I reply. Not anymore, at least.

Mum frowns. “Are you coughing? You’d better not be catching a cold. You know what’ll happen if you--”

I nod. “Yeah, of course. I’m fine. It’s just a touch of hayfever.” (The same reason we’ve spent all afternoon in North Tyneside. Same reason I got called out of school just after break started.)

“All right. Because you know your Dad won’t be able to come home if...” She unlocks the door, and ushers me into the house, shutting it tightly behind us. “...If you’re going to make him sick. You know he can’t afford to catch a bug.”

“I know, I know!” I say quickly, undoing my shoes and pulling them off, with a grunt and a wince. It’s too hot for socks, and I go through tights like water. My feet--bare inside my shoes, sweaty and tired--shriek in pain as I flex them in the fresh air.

Well. The air. I don’t think the stuff in our house really counts as “fresh”. Damp and heavy, like the laundry Mum insists we hang up indoors. She takes the phrase, “Don’t wash your dirty laundry in public,” literally, not just figuratively. I guess, to her, the garden counts as “public,” because… well… it kind of is. Everyone overlooks everyone else around here. Cheek by jowl. Not that that seems to bother anyone else. Summer days are full of bedsheets, flapping in the wind, and the smell of lavender drifting across the sky like clouds.

Finally my phone stops ringing. Ugh. Finally. I drag my bag up to my bedroom, and flop down on my bed, pressing my face into the pillow, and wondering if I might get some sleep in, this evening. Or tonight, maybe. I missed lunch today, and, since I got lunch yesterday, I’m feeling it now. Someone’s sandpapered the inside of my stomach.

A wave of nausea rises up, and I clamp my hand over my mouth, pressing the other’s fingers against the three silver nails that make up my cross pendant. Oh, God, don’t let me be sick… Mum’ll be so angry with me if I’m sick… whether or not she finds out why…

Before I can think anything else, my phone rings again, vibrations jabbing my ribcage, 8-bit music breaking through the air like a diver through the surface of a lake.

“For the love of Christ,” I mutter, pulling the bloody thing out of my pocket, and snapping it open. I don’t bother to look at who’s calling. I don’t care. “What?”

“Um, Ffion? Is that you? This is Char. Char Moreau.”

“Oh,” I say, “You called me a few minutes ago. What do you want?” I don’t sit up. I just prop myself up on one elbow, and put my phone on my pillow. Put Charlotte on speakerphone.

“I wanted to be sure you were all right,” Charlotte says, “Nobody saw you after break, and nobody knows where you went. Are you OK?”

“What do you care? You’re not my friend,” I mutter, getting off the bed and prodding the door with my foot, until it closes.

“I used to be,” Charlotte says, “And I kind of wish I still were. You’re nice. And… I kind of wonder about you. What’s going on in your life, what you’re up to. All of that. We never talk anymore.”

“Yeah, there’s a reason for that,” I reply, and I’m just about to press the button to end the call. My finger is poised.

And then Charlotte says, “And what reason’s that?” and she doesn’t sound angry. She doesn’t even sound sad. She just sounds… gently curious, I guess. Like she actually wants to know. Just like she’s asking a distant friend how the weather’s been for them.

“Because you’re a slut,” sticks in my throat, and I can’t get the words out. I get as far as, “Because,” and then I stop. “Because” can be enough. “Because,” I repeat, “I don’t… like you.”

“Oh,” Charlotte says quietly, “Is there a reason for that, too?”

“You’re a slut,” I blurt, before it can get caught up in my mouth again.

“I mean, yeah,” Charlotte replies, “That’s not a bad thing.”

I scowl at my phone, and wish she’d had the decency to knock on my door, so that I could scowl at her instead. “Yes, it is.” Why can’t she see it? Why isn’t she yelling at me? If someone called me a slut--not that they’d ever have reason to--I’d scratch out their eyes. Obviously the phone’s in the way, but… Charlotte should be raging.

“Who told you that?” she asks.

I shrug. And then I remember that she can’t see me shrugging, and so I clench my fists, and take a deep breath before I answer. And then I realise that I’m not sure who told me. But it must be true, right? Because… I mean, obviously it’s true. “It says so in the Bible,” I say confidently, remembering the girl at my Church who had to hand in her purity ring. It must say so in the Bible. “So… So God told me. Jesus told me.”

“Oh,” Charlotte says, “Did Jesus write the Bible?”

“Yes,” I reply. And then I pause. “Well, I mean, not quite. But He might as well have done. He told other people what to write, and then they wrote it down for Him. Like how Etta tells you what to say, and then you speak for her. Or other people tell you what to sign.”

Charlotte hums thoughtfully. “I mean… that’s not exactly how it works.”

“No?”

“No,” she explains, “Because I’m working with two different languages, right? Two very different ways of communicating, so… sometimes I have to change phrases, or find another way of saying the same thing. Or I use the wrong word by accident, and then everyone gets a bit...” She chuckles. “A bit confused. I’m going to train properly, once I’ve finished A’ Levels. Go to uni and do a degree in BSL Interpreting.”

My stomach turns over, and gurgles so loudly that I slap my hand over it, horrified that Charlotte might have heard. The Lord alone knows what she’d think it was. That noise. “What’s your point?”

“Sometimes things get lost in translation,” Charlotte says, “So that it’s hard to know what the original meaning was supposed to be. Like… maybe Jesus didn’t mean, “don’t be a slut.” Maybe He meant, like, “Don’t lie, don’t cheat, don’t be irresponsible,” and, over the centuries… over the thousands of years that have passed… those things have come to mean one and the same.”

“Blasphemy,” I mutter, “That’s the stupidest thing I’ve ever heard. And Jesus didn’t put it exactly like that. He didn’t say, “Don’t be a slut,” ‘cause He didn’t think He’d have to write that one down.”

“So what did He say?”

"Well, um, He said," I reply, staggering through my words, "To save yourself for marriage, and that you shouldn't do it before."

"Oh," Charlotte says, "And why's that?"

"Well, because… because it's immoral," I stammer, "And because it's a special thing for you to do with someone you love. Someone you love enough to spend the rest of your life with. Not just some random bloke you fancy."

"What if some random bloke is someone you love enough to spend the rest of your life with?" Charlotte says, "What if you know that already?"

"Um. Are you saying you're gonna be with Stefan forever?" I start chewing the cuff of my blazer, pulling at a loose thread with my teeth.

"I might be," Charlotte replies, "I think it would be nice. And I don't know if I'm gonna marry him—or anyone—so why does marriage have to be something I wait for?"

"Because it's a life long bond," I snap, "Obviously. Once you're married to someone, you're with them forever."

Charlotte laughs. "My parents got divorced when I was five. My Dad went back to Marseille, and I don't see him hardly at all. He and my Mum are still friends, sure, but they're not, like… in love anymore, no way. Marriage isn't a lifetime bond. At least not to me. Just because I marry someone, it doesn't mean I'll stay with them for the rest of my life. And just because I don't marry someone, it doesn't mean I won't be with them forever. I can't tell the future."

"Yeah, well, God can," I reply.

"I don't doubt it," Charlotte says, and I think I can hear the rustle of her curly hair on the other end of the line. Is she nodding? It sounds like she's nodding. "But God doesn't talk to me. And nor does Jesus."

"It's because They don't like you," I tell her, straightening my back and staring out of my closed bedroom window, "For the same reason other people don't like you. Because you're a slut."

"OK, so we've established that I'm a slut," Charlotte says, "And that people don't like me because I'm a slut."

"Yeah, so why are you calling me?"

"Because I wanted to talk to you about something. But first… these people who don't like me… Do they dislike me because I hurt people? Because I'm mean? Or is it just because I'm a slut?"

"I mean, I was friends with you before you turned into a slut," I reply, "And I think you're all right, otherwise. It's just a shame you're so…" I've said "slut" too many times.

"So "slutty"?" Charlotte suggests.

"Well… yeah. You are." It's the truth. She sleeps at her boyfriend's house all the time. How long does she expect that to last? And how else does she expect everyone to think of her?

"OK…" Charlotte pauses. "So… because I'm a slut… it doesn't matter that I try to be nice? That I try to help people? That I wouldn't ever judge anyone for living how they wanted to, as long as they weren't hurting anyone?" She pauses. "Jesus doesn't care about any of those things, because I'm a slut? I might as well… just… be horrible to everyone as well?"

"No, no, no," I say quickly, shaking with the worry she's about to start yelling at me down the phone. "You should still be nice."

"You're not nice," Charlotte says, like she's pointing out something original, "Is Jesus OK with that, just 'cause you're saving yourself for marriage? You can be as mean as you want… insult as many people as you want… kick Gordon while he's down… and still go to Heaven, as long as you're a virgin until your wedding night?"

"I mean, obviously, you're not allowed to be horrible," I say. Is she stupid? "You've still got to be nice to people if you want to go to Heaven when you die. That's the Golden Rule: "Do as you would be done by.""

"Mm-hmm." Charlotte doesn't say anything for a moment. "So… you want other people to be mean to you? Tell you you're going to Hell?"

"No!" My cheeks burn, and my skin prickles like someone's pressing a sweet chestnut shell against my face. "What a horrible thing to say!"

"Then why do you say it to other people?" Charlotte asks gently. "I know you can be nice. I saw you, in Maths yesterday, helping Lena, and helping Sophie. You can be really lovely when you want to." She pauses, and I think she's trying to work out how to phrase what she says next. "Isn't that a better way to be? Kind? As often as you can?" Her voice is soft. Sweet. Coaxing. "Isn't that what Jesus tells us to do? More so than, "Don't be a slut"?"

"Oh." I swallow hard. "Um. I mean. I…"

"It's OK," Charlotte says, "Just because you've been mean in the past… it doesn't mean you can't change. There's something about forgiveness in the Bible, isn't there? About… forgiving your brother—"

"—Not seven times, but seventy times seven," I whisper, voice immediately hoarse as tears spring to my eyes. Why now of all times did I have to think of my brothers?

"Right," Charlotte says, "So what makes you think other people won't forgive you?"

"I don't—" I squeeze my eyes shut, and a sob bursts out before I can get my next words down the phone. "I don't deserve it!"

"Hey, no, of course you do," Charlotte says, "Nobody's irredeemable. Isn't that kind of the point? If you want forgiveness, all you need to do is ask. And if you want to be a better person, all you have to do is try."

"I'm horrible," I wail, tears streaming down my cheeks as I slump forward onto my knees, slouching over the bed, and hugging my shins.

"No, you're not," Charlotte replies, "I promise you're not."

"How can you know that?" I gulp. God, where are my tissues? I sit up just straight enough to spot the empty box on my chest of drawers.

"Because we're having this conversation," she says, "If you actually were horrible, you wouldn't want to change. Chris is horrible. Look at how he treats Gordon and Lena. Look at how he treated Sophie yesterday, shoving her over. She has bruises, Ffion, she showed me, and I bet Chris isn't sorry. You're sorry. You want to be better. I want to be better."

I snort with laughter, which is… an extremely disgusting experience. Not doing that next time I burst into tears. "What can you possibly do to be better than you already are? You care about me when nobody else does."

"Well, every day, I try to make as many people happy as I can," Charlotte replies, "Whether it's by doing something nice, or saying something funny, or making someone smile… if I can do that more times one day than I did the day before, I'm happy with myself."

"I want! To be happy with myself!" I blurt, weeping into my palms, fingers immediately dripping with tears.

"Well, that's easy," Charlotte says, "Just start as soon as you can. Help as many people as often as you can. Be as kind as you can. You know something? If you make other people happy, they'll make other people happy, too. And those people will make other people happy, and so on, and so on, and then the whole world gets to be a little bit happier because of it."

"I'd like that," I whisper, "You're smart, you know that?"

Charlotte laughs. "Oh, no, sweetheart, I just work hard. Anyone can work hard," she replies, "And I want to help you, 'cause it… please don't think I'm trying to be intrusive, here, but… it sounds like you're having a tough time. And it sounds like you need someone to help you."

"Yeah," I mumble, nodding. "Thank you."

"Any time," Charlotte says, "I mean it. And I'm not the only one who wants to be your friend, either, by the way."

"No?"

"Lena told us you knew about her and her girlfriend before anyone else did. And you kept it secret for them. And then you helped Lena when Chris outed her. Why wouldn't she want to be your friend?"

"Oh. Hmm," I mumble, "You and Lena. That's nice. It's only two people." Two people wanting to be my friends. Not exactly the same has having two friends. Which I don't. "Fucked" almost covers my situation. But not quite.

"And Sophie, and Etta, and Lena's girlfriend," Charlotte insists, "I bet all of them are just as concerned about you as I am! I know they like you! And Stef thinks you're pretty great, too, just a bit… misguided. But then anyone can be misguided. It's the good people that want to be better. And that's you, isn't it? I think it sounds like you." I can hear her soft, faint breathing at the end of the line.

"Yeah," I whisper, voice cracking, "What can I do? Where do I start?"

"I mean… the reason I called you… is to ask if you'd be interested in joining a GSA. That's a gender-sexuality—"

"I know what it is," I hiss, scrambling to take Charlotte off speaker, and clutching my phone to my ear. Is my bedroom door closed? Definitely? Yes. "Look, I'm at home, I can't really say much."

"OK," Charlotte says, "But could you come to the lake? Or the woods, maybe? Somewhere quiet, where we can talk in private. Five minutes?"

"I'll try," I say "If I'm not there in ten minutes, it's 'cause I can't get there. It not 'cause I don't want to come, 'cause I do. But my Mum might not—" I lower my voice. "—My Mum might not let me."

"That's OK," Charlotte says, "Just… tell her you're going for a walk, to get a little bit of fresh air."

"Going for a walk," I repeat, rubbing my forehead with the heel of my hand, and trying not to groan out loud at the thought of walking even further on my blisters today.

Hospital car parks aren't cheap, let alone affordable. After the cost of petrol to get to North Tyneside General, it's a long walk from a wide street to Dad's ward. Or more often—like today—down twisting corridors with fluorescent lights and gleaming linoleum floors, to his bed in the intensive care unit.

All from a single lungful of pollen, through an open window.

I shudder, thinking of my "hayfever" excuse a few minutes ago, and how quickly Mum stopped asking questions after it.

I don't suffer with hayfever. But I—with my steaming eyes and my streaming nose—definitely look the part right now.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Somehow I manage to stop crying before I get down the stairs to ask Mum if I can go for a walk. She says “yes”, because, well, it’s not like there’s anything I can do for Dad this evening, and, what with her stress-cleaning, she wouldn’t let me mop a floor even if I begged.

When I meet Charlotte in the shadows of her Dad’s boathouse, I’m shivering, even though it’s still as hot and muggy as it’s been all day. I daresay there’s another storm coming in, which… honestly? It wouldn’t surprise me.

Storms are a sign of God’s anger, always have been, and I’ve more than earned that anger of late. I’m not sure exactly how the verse goes, but I’m paraphrasing here: the Bible does tell you not to be a bitch.

There’s the sound of tiny feet bounding up the gravel path to the boathouse door, and then Charlotte’s voice drifts along the air. “Calm down, Lumi, my love, that’s a good girl. We’re going to see Ffion! I think you’ll like her. She’s lovely!”

I want to cry all over again, but I’m not sure I’m physically capable of crying any more than I already have. Ashes to ashes, dust to dust, right? I’d just blow away on the wind if I gave away the last bit of water in my body to another round of tears.

"Knock, knock," Charlotte says, poking her head round the doorway of the boathouse, "I brought a good dog and a nice boy, if that's OK." She gives a gentle tug on the lead wrapped round her hand, and whistles softly. "Lumi, my love, come in and sit, good girl!"

A small Staffordshire terrier pads in and sniffs my hand as I kneel down in front of her.

"Oh, she's beautiful!" I say, laughing as she licks my hand. Lumi, not Charlotte.

"Yes, she is!" Charlotte crouches down next to us, and drapes her arm over Lumi's back, giving her a gentle squeeze, and cooing. "I thought you might like some cuddles, so I brought the big loaf with me."

My stomach growls at the word "loaf" and the thought of food, and I flinch, covering it instinctively with my hand.

Charlotte pretends not to hear, which is… so generous of her, and plants a kiss on top of Lumi's russet-coloured head. "She's a friendly lump and I love her lots." Then she sits back on her haunches, grins, and says, "Speaking of friendly lumps that I love lots, are you OK for Stef to come in as well? I told him to wait outside in case you'd rather not see him, but—"

I remember what Charlotte said about Stefan thinking I'm "pretty great", and it's all I can do not to burst into tears. So I smile, and nod, and say yes, yes, please, bring in this second person who wants to be my friend.

"Hello!" Stefan says, peeking round the door and beaming at me around a mouthful of Jaffa cake. "Who's peckish? I brought snacks!" He sits down next to the three of us, and reaches into a rucksack. "Now, then, what have I got? Uh… there's some soup, from that lovely recipe Soph uses, and… ooh, yes, I made bread rolls, and, of course, Jaffa cakes… and…" He scrunches up his face as he rummages through the front pocket. "I mean, I think that's a Rice Krispy, but I shouldn't like to say for sure… Ooh! And there's what I'm looking for!"

He pulls out a bag of raisins, grinning triumphantly as he holds it up in the air. "Char, my love, I trust you've got the shot glasses?"

"Oh, um, I don't drink!" I stammer, heart pounding as I imagine them shoving me into the lake as quickly as they came to meet me at the boathouse.

"Oh, no, it's not for vodka," Charlotte says, "And they're not even glass." She digs through the pocket of her handbag and retrieves three little Tupperware pots, each one with a lid. She hands one to me, and one to Stef. "They're for raisins."

"Raisin shots!" Stefan cheers, bobbing from side to side in a little on-the-spot dance.

Lumi's ears perk up, and she barks.

"Oh, no raisins for you, Lumi, my little pupper," Stefan says, ruffling Lumi's fur. "We have some nourishing dog biscuits for you, don't we?"

I’ve been thinking the worst of some of the best people.

Chapter 25: Feast: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Disordered Eating (Very Brief) / Discussion of Depression (Very Brief).

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
There’s a small crowd of us outside Mrs Paulson’s office, the next morning. Don’t get me wrong; when I say “a small crowd”, what I mean is "a number of people more enormous than can fit into this little neck of the corridor". I'd say we were packed in like sardines, but I know it'd only be misconstrued. People would think of a small tin of fish. The sardines I'm referring to—the ones we currently resemble—are the people who willingly jam themselves into cupboards, wardrobes, and spaces underneath dining tables, at parties. In massive number.

We're not crammed into this bit of hallway like a handful of sardines into a tin. We're crammed into this but of hallway like a larder full of drunken teenagers pretending to be a handful of sardines in a tin.

With all the uncomfortable, sweaty closeness, and none of the electrifying, steamy intimacy that implies. It's June. We're at school. There's nothing electrifying or steamy about being at school in June.

So we're outside Mrs Paulson's office, having knocked, and now we're waiting—and we definitely wait for at least four hours, which I have on the very good authority of my extremely great patience—and waiting and waiting for her to answer the door.

"Are you sure she's even in there?" Tetty says, scratching her neck as she leans on the nearest bit of painted brick.

I snort with laughter and stick up two fingers in her general direction. "I think you should save questions like that for your chaperone next time you're at the gynecologist, don't you?"

She aims a kick at me, but I skip out of the way, and into Scott's waiting arms.

"Don't make me put you in my rucksack for the rest of the day, Gordy," he murmurs so that only I can hear, "Be a good chap, now."

I wink at him, feeling like I should say something to the effect of "oo-er", but not knowing exactly what.

And then Mrs Paulson opens the door of her office, and her eyebrows zoom up her forehead. "Goodness me, so many of you!" She looks at her watch. "No, it really is only quarter to eight! Are you all here for the same thing?"

A buzz erupts across the crowd, adolescent voices all at different stages of breaking or sweetening, none of them elegant or coherent. I'm glad I know everyone's saying "yes", because I doubt I'd be able to work it out otherwise.

Mrs Paulson looks bewildered enough to confirm that little guess of mine. "Come in, come in!" she says, holding the door open and counting under her breath as we all clamour into her office.

"Gosh, I'm not sure I have enough seats for everyone," she says, "It's not often I have so many visitors at once. Tell you what I do have—sit down, sit down, where you can—enough of, enough to go around…" She closes the door behind the last of the crowd, and reaches a tin down from the highest shelf of her bookcase. "Take a biscuit and pass them along, won't you? I've decided to keep biscuits for my visitors." She smiles and winks at someone I can't pick out.

Who's she looking at? I crane my neck to try to see, but I'm met by a pair of startled brown eyes.

That makes her sound like a deer, which… of course… she's nothing like. A deer would be scared of whatever appeared in its path. Ffion just looks like she wasn't expecting me to look at her, like I made her jump, but like she knows I was just a false alarm. But I don't know if I can liken her to anything else. Everything else I can think of right now is rude, and I've decided I'm not going to be rude about her anymore, no matter what she says to me.

Anyway. I'm the one who should be startled. I wouldn't have expected her to come to this meeting if my life had depended on expecting just that.

If. Hmm.

Who invited her in the end? Lena?

Ffion stares back at me with calm eyes, ringed underneath with grey shadows, and blinks. And then she looks away again.

But who was Mrs P looking at?

I keep peering around until my eyes land on one of the Year Eights Angie's dragged along. Probably one of them fainted in Mrs Paulson's office and needed an absent biscuit to bring them round.

I reckon even I would start keeping biscuits in my room if a Year Eight staggered in and keeled over. And I'm personally averse to crumbs.

"Now, then," Mrs Paulson says, "What can I help with?"

About a thousand elbows start nudging me in the ribs, and, all around me, voices whisper my name. I feel like Cher. Can't say I still envy her as much as I used to. "Gordon, Gordon, Gordon," "Gordy," and even the occasional "Bennjy," all build to a clamour until my face burns and I can only raise my hand, hoping to make it stop.

"Gordon!" Mrs Paulson says, grinning, "Would you like to share?"

I nod. "Yeah, Miss, sharing is caring. Um, so… we'd like to set up a GSA at the Comp. 'Cause we're worried about homophobia, and it'd be nice to have a... sort of… support group? A safe space, where we can all hang out and know that everyone else there, is either like us, or fine with us. So that it's clear to anyone who does have a problem—"

"Chris fuckling Davison," growls Archie, I'm a voice so low that Mrs Paulson doesn't catch it.

"—with us—with Queer people—knows they're in a minority." I pick at the sleeve of my blazer, and clear my throat. "So obviously we've got to get your permission, 'cause we can't very well meet outdoors. 'Cause obviously some people are closeted and want to keep it that way."

"Well, if you want a classroom to meet in, say, every Tuesday lunchtime…" Mrs Paulson bends over her computer and taps at the keyboard until the timetable shows up. "I think Room Eleven is free."

"Oh, Miss, Room Ten smells like cat food!" Russell Bird protests, "Couldn't we meet somewhere else?"

"Uh…" Mrs P squints at the screen. "Room Eleven?"

"Nice," Russell says, grinning. He catches me glaring at him, and adds, "Well, it does smell like cat food!"

"That's just Char!" I reply, dodging a swift kick aimed at my shin immediately afterwards.

Char sticks her tongue out.

"Please stop trying to maim each other," Mrs Paulson groans, pinching the bridge of her nose. "If you promise to stop trying to maim each other, you can have the room every Tuesday lunchtime until the end of the school year. Then we can re-evaluate for September."

"I promise," Char pipes up, smiling and patting me matily on the shoulder.

"Very nice, too," Mrs Paulson says, adding "club" to the timetable.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

On the way out of class at the end of the day, I bump into Ffion, and this time she actually does startle, wincing as if I've hit her.

Fearing the worst—that she'll go to Mrs Paulson and say that I did—I blurt apologies, and step back, looking her up and down. "Oh, my God, I'm so sorry. Are you OK?"

Ffion's eyes are slightly narrower than usual, and her voice is strained. She's clearly lying, but she croaks, "I'm fine. Are you?"

I nod. "Of course I'm OK! Did I tread on your feet or something?"

Ffion shrugs, which could mean anything, so I look down, and see red marks all over her feet, which are bare in her scuffed shoes. The straps press hard into her insteps, and bright scarlet blisters scream.

"Oh, my God, your feet!" I exclaim, squeezing my eyes shut, "Aren't you in pain?"

But Ffion just shrugs again. "I'm fine," she repeats, turning on her heel and limping off down the corridor.

I hesitate for a moment, wondering if there's anything I can do. Lend her my bus pass, so that she doesn't have to walk on those poor broken things? I'd do it for Etta. I'd do it for Char.

I catch myself. This isn't Etta. This isn't Char. This is Ffion, and only yesterday, I was ready to print T-shirts saying "Ffion McDade is a Ffucking McBitch".

But that was yesterday. If I'd met her today? If she were a brand new student here? I'd have scooped her up into a hug, welcomed her to Wooler Water Comp, and invited her to sit at my table in class.

Last week she was yelling at me for the slightest little misdemeanor, telling me I was going to Hell. I shudder to think of what she'd have done if I'd stood on her feet last Thursday.

Today? Her voice was quiet, her posture small, and her face… impossible to read.

That's not even to mention how she looked at me in Mrs Paulson's office. Completely neutral, not a hint of dislike, let alone the abject scorn I know she's held me in for years.

Something's changed. Someone's talked to her. Chris? Has Chris talked to her?! Told her to stop being such a bitch, told her to lure us all into a false sense of security, before—

—before—

—oh, God, I can't let her go. I can't let her report back to Chris with names of all the people gathered for the GSA. That's my friends. That's my family. My sister. Her boyfriend. My boyfriend.

Oh, God. What Chris could do with all those names… I want to be sick, but there's no time.

I look wildly around the corridor, and then sprint after her, catching her up in the middle of the quad.

She jumps as I grab her sleeve. "Don't!" she exclaims, and I brace myself for a slew of slurs, but… all she says is, "God, you made me jump! Hasn't anyone ever told you to wear a bell?!" She stares at me, blinking rapidly.

And then I realise she's waiting for me to explain, and I let go of her arm. "Sorry," I mumble, "Panicked. Where are you going?"

"Home," she says, "Aren't you? Isn't everyone?"

"Yeah, obviously, of course, yeah, um. I was just… I wanted to talk to you?" I phrase it like a question, but she's not the one I'm asking.

"Oh," she says, "Are you sure?" And when I nod, "Oh," again, "What about?"

I look around the quad, just in case Chris should be anywhere, watching, but then I remember that he's been suspended, and that when you get suspended, you have to wait in the Support department until someone comes to pick you up. A parent.

We're safe. We're safe, not being watched or overheard. And yet I can't stop feeling eyes on my back, right where the target's been since I came out.

"Not here," I say, "Meet me at Sophie's family's tea rooms, on the High Street. Can you make it at about half-four?"

She looks towards the woods, and I know she's meant to be walking home, not taking the bus. But with those feet?

My own skin howls at the thought of it, a cringe imagining the agony of my feet being torn at every step.

"Probably," she says, "But I haven't got my spare money at the moment. I don't see how I can come and meet you for coffee—"

"My treat," I interrupt, digging in my blazer pocket and pulling out my bus pass. "Here, take the bus. You can give this back when we meet up."

"I'm fine to walk, honest," she replies, "I don't really like the bus anyway."

I glance at the sky. "But it looks like rain," I say, "I'd hate for you to get soaked on the way home!"

She cocks her head to the side. "You've never seemed to care before…" She sounds suspicious, and that's the last thing I want.

God damn it, I'm trying to extend a whatsit stick here! Olive branch. Which just happens to be shaped like a bus pass.

I don't say that. I say, "I know. I've been a dickhead, and I'm sorry. You don't have to forgive me. But if you're happy to call a truce, then…" I hold out my hand for her to shake, and she does. "So am I."

Ffion smiles. "Oh," she says, "Truce, then." She laughs, and I don't think I've ever heard her laugh before. I don't remember hearing her laugh, ever. "But it's your bus pass. And while we're about the same height…"She peers at my photo, and stifles a giggle. It was taken in Year Seven. I look like a goddamn baby. "I think I'll have a hard time convincing the bus driver that's me. Different faces."

I grin. "Glasses, too," I reply. "Oh, are you sure you're OK to walk?"

"I'm fine!" she insists, "I always walk!"

Seeing I'm never gonna convince her, I nod, and tuck my pass away. "If you're sure," I say, "Then I'll see you at the tea rooms?"

"Half past four," she says, nodding, and shaking my hand again. She wears an affectedly formal expression, like a Victorian duchess. "Mr Benn," she says.

"Miss McDade."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Have I… made a friend?

I don't speak on the bus ride home, just keep squinting at the picture on my bus pass. Year Seven. That was… God, it feels like a whole life time ago, but… what can it be? Three years? Nearly four?

Thinking back, I remember a freezing winter with something like two feet of snow, followed by a summer so hot that Mum's citronella candlesticks all melted in the garden, just from standing in the sun.

Grouping up with Lena and Scott and Soph and Etta and… God… I don't think Char or Stef were part of our group back then. Stef used to hang around with Patrick and that, sloping off to Wooler every day, even in the holidays.

Char… She was a friend, yeah, friend to me, friend to Etta—best friend to Etta—but she hardly ever hung out with the whole group. Angie always tagged along as Etta's terp.

Char was…

Char wasn't even Char, then. She always went by her full name, Charlotte. She wouldn't let anyone shorten it. Bit me, once, just 'cause I asked if I could call her Lottie.

But she didn't seem lonely. Who'd she hang out with when she wasn't with us?

I frown, trying to remember, but the bus heaves into Chase Valley and thunks to a halt before I can quite recall.

"Char-ling, my darling," I say, resting my head on her shoulder, "What did you do with your life before we were mates?"

She snorts with laughter. "I cried myself to sleep every night, and woke up crying every morning, obviously."

"You didn't!" I elbow her in the ribs. "Tell us, tell us, I'm drawing a blank here and it's gonna prey on my mind for the rest of my life. Please."

She grins, and peers at me, like she can't believe I don't know this. "Ffion," she says. "Ffion, and Etta, and Lena and Soph. Why?"

I shrug. "Just realised I didn't know."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Sophie's working at the coffee machines when I slip into the Wainwrights' tea rooms, and she doesn't see me at first, not hear me over the hiss of steam and the rumble of grinding beans. It's not until I get into the middle of the space that she looks up, and grins, and points me to an alcove in the far corner, mouthing, "Over there."

I nod to her, and blow her a lil kiss, and then sidle over to the table, whistling. I do like a jaunty whistle in occasion. Like a cute little fanfare. Sometimes you need a little fanfare, you know?

Ffion hears me approaching and looks up, a slight smile flickering at the corner of her mouth. "Sophie says we shouldn't be disturbed here. So we can talk in private." But she's still looking round, as if she's being watched.

I guess she thinks she is.

God. Who'd believe in Him?

"Sound about right," I say, "There's no way we'll have to worry about Chris coming in here, for one. Not to mention, it's nearly closing time. Soph always lets us stay late if we help clear our stuff up."

Ffion flexes her fingers. "I'm no stranger to a sink of dishes," she says, smiling, "So… what did you want to talk about?"

"Coffee, first," I say, "Unless you'd prefer tea. Or hot chocolate."

She beams, and her eyes sparkle so brightly I half expect her to brust into tears right there and then. "Tea would be amazing! Thank you so much!"

I pat her arm, say I'll be back in a moment, and trot up to the counter.

"Sophie, my favourite darling," I say, leaning on my elbows, and simpering at her. "Might we trouble you for a pot of tea each? And a little bittle of cakey wakey?"

She snorts with laughter, and wipes down the steam pipe on the nearest coffee machine. "Sure," she replies, grinning, "Would you like Victoria Wictoria Spongey Wongey, or…"

"Ooh, Spongey Wongey, please, sweetie pie."

"Coming right up," she says, as I pull a ten pound note out of my wallet and push it across the counter. "Many thank." And now smirk. "Gordy Wordy. Please have a seat. Don't want you loping around, creating havoc."

"When have you ever seen me loping?" I protest, but I quickly shrink at the thunderous look she shoots me. "Sozzle, sozzle, I'll be off. Are you sure you don't want me to come back for the tray when it's ready?"

"Fuck off," she says, grinning with all her teeth.

"Yep," I say, tiptoeing back to the table.

As I get close, I remember what Ffion said about wearing a bell, and greet her with a cheery, "Ding-ding," to sit down.

"Thank you," she says, eyes big and earnest.

"It's no problem," I assure her, "The tea's on its way." I don't tell her about the cake. It's a surprise.

"No, but really," she says, "Thank you. It means a lot. More than you know."

I don't know how to respond to that. So I go back to what I wanted to say originally, to the main reason I suggested we meet here.

"I know I've been a tosser," I say, "And I'm really sorry about that. All the times I've had a go at you, all the times I've wound you up to get a reaction, or made fun of you." Every reflex I have is trying to make me look at the tabletop, and not at her, but I fight them all, and force myself to keep eye contact.

She blinks, and the shape of her brow softens.

"For all the times I've laughed at you behind your back," I continue, "I'm so sorry, and I don't expect you to forgive me or to believe me, even, but it's the truth, and I'd like you to hear it."

"I do believe it," she says quietly, and I expect to her to add to that, but she doesn't, just watches me, expectant.

"I want to be friends, Ffion, and not just because you're joining the GSA. But because you're nice, and I want to be nice to you, too. And I've been horrible, and I wish I could take all of it back, but I can't. This is the only way I can fix things, by promising you I will never be mean to you again. And by trying to make up for lost time, so that you know I do care, and I will look out for you, from now on."

Ffion squeezes her eyes shut for a moment, and reaches across the table with blind hands. Her fingers search for mine, and meet them, and then she opens her eyes again, and they're full of tears. "I'm sorry, too," she says, "I've been spiteful and rude and… shouty? What's the word…" She frowns, and looks at the table for a moment, thinking. "Aggressive. Confrontational. Judgemental. Everything a mean person is. Everything a kind person isn't. I've hurt a lot of people."

"It's OK," I say, squeezing her hands, and swallowing hard past the lump in my throat.

"No," she says, suddenly blurry, "It's not OK, and I don't want to be like that anymore. So I'm sorry, too, and I'd like to be friends, too, and I need you to know that, too." She looses my hands, mumbles for me to hold on a moment, and rummages in her pocket.

"You don't have to pay me for the tea," I insist.

"I want to," she replies, "I don't want ch—" She pauses, and pulls out a handkerchief. "Here," she says, "This is what I was looking for." She holds it out to me. "Here you go. It's clean, I promise. Fresh off the clothes horse just before I left the house to come here "

"Thanks," I say, smiling, patting her hand and closing her fingers gently around the soft off-white fabric, "But I don't need it."

"Oh, no?" She reaches across the table and wipes one of my tears away with the tip of her index finger, and then shows it to me. "What's this, then?"

I shrug, and grin. "Something I can wipe on my sleeve," I reply, smearing my face against the cuff of my shirt.

She tuts at me like I'm a naughty child, but… I mean… I'm the reason she's crying, so I can't laugh—and, anyway, I'm crying myself—

"You need it more than I do," I tell her, pulling the handkerchief out from between her fingers, and dabbing it gently on her face. "There we go, sweetie, no more tears."

She bursts into fresh ones. "You called me sweetie?"

Fuck. Fuck, fuck, fuck, of course it's too soon for that, fuck. "I'm sorry," I whisper, "I shouldn't have said that. Please forget I said that."

But Ffion shakes her head, and smiles, wiping her tears again. "I don't want to," she says, her voice trembling. No, quivering. "I'm just... not quite used to being called that."

""Sweetie"?" I repeat, thinking of all the times my friends and I have called each other that. Slightly more than we insult each other, I think, but that's… I mean… We're not usually trying to hurt each other, only burn each other to the ground. When it's coming from Sophie, "dickhead" is basically the same as "darling". And I'm used to both.

I get the impression Ffion's used to being insulted, even if being called "sweetie" is a novelty.

She nods. "I like it, though," she adds quickly, "Charlotte called me sweetheart yesterday, and I nearly died on the spot."

"Aw!" I exclaim, pressing the palm of my hand to my collarbones. "Yeah, Char's lovely. Terrifying, and occasionally bitey, but lovely the rest of the time."

Ffion laughs.

And then Soph is behind her, holding the tray with our orders. "Tea and cake, right?" She starts lifting the plates down to the tabletop, and then heaves two massive teapots down, setting them between us. "Best to leave the tea for another couple of minutes, maybe two?" Sophie smiles. "And here are your cups." She puts them down in the table with a soft clink, and then tucks the empty tray under her arm. "Enjoy!"

And then she's gone, back to the counter to take the next few orders.

Ffion frowns at the plates between us. "Cake?" she says.

"Mm-hm," I reply, grinning, "I thought you might like a little snack, and, well, since I'm off the market…"

She turns bright pink and hides her face in her hands, but it does nothing to muffle her giggles. "Oh, my goodnes, no, I mean, um, you're not my type! No offence, but I'm not really into…" She stops laughing, and presses her lips together to try to keep a straight face. "Never mind. You really ordered cake?"

I make a pantomime of peering at the counter. "Well, judging by the small crowd of angry patrons chasing Sophie with a bunch of pitchforks et cetera, I'd say…"

Ffion looks around, alarmed, and cranes her neck.

"Oh, sweetie, not really," I say, gently touching her hand, and smiling at her when she turns back round. "Of course I ordered cake."

"I can't pay you back for it—"

I shake my head. "I promise, you don't need to. It's my treat to you."

She looks at the table. "I can't accept it," she mumbles, pushing the plate nearest her towards me. "You have it."

"It's for you, mate," I reply, pushing it back towards her, "Unless you don't like cake. But there are other kinds, I mean—"

"You shouldn't be buying me cake," she says, "I don't need it. The tea's more than enough."

"Nonsense," I say, "I like buying cake for my friends. Or making cake for my friends. Char, too, you'll see." I pause. "Although in my experience her cakes only seem to materialise in the form of apologies for biting me."

Ffion bursts out laughing, and wipes her tears in the backs of her hands. And then she looks at me, quite serious. "Are you sure?"

"Of course I'm sure," I insist, "Go ahead. I'm always hungry around this time of day, aren't you?"

Ffion smiles, and nods. "If you're sure." She smacks herself in the forehead. "Of course you're sure!" She grins at me, and squeezes my hand. "Thank you."

I watch her eat her cake as I eat mine, and as her blazer sleeves slip down, exposing her wrists for the first time, I realise how skinny her arms are. Her forearms are covered in downlike hair, and she has goosepimples even in the warm of the tearooms.

She's engrossed in that cake, staring at the fine crumbs and glossy jam, and she doesn't realise, until she looks up, and then she realises I'm staring.

In all honesty, I hadn't realised I was staring either. I certainly hadn't meant to.

Ffion flinches, and pulls her sleeves down hastily. She stares at her halfeaten piece of cake, and prods it with the prongs of her fork.

"Sorry," I whisper, "Is it…"

"I don't do it anymore," Ffion mumbles, "So don't go around telling people."

What? I furrow my brow. "What?"

She looks up, and her eyes are rimmed in red. "What?"

"What don't you do anymore?"

Ffion shakes her head. "Doesn't matter. What were you looking at?"

"Your arms are really thin," I say, keeping my voice as quiet as possible, "You're really thin. Are you OK?"

She nods. "I'm getting better. Don't worry." But she's stopped making eye contact again, and she hasn't had another bite of that cake. She's just poking it around the plate, breaking it into smaller and smaller pieces.

"Getting better from what?" I whisper, "Is it, like, I don't know… an eating disorder or something?"

Suddenly she realises what I'm getting at, and shakes her head vigorously. "No, no, no, it's nothing like that. I…" She sighs. "I know I'm thin. Too thin. And I don't want to be. But…" She shakes her head again. "Never mind. You don't need the burden. All you need to know is that it's gonna be OK." She pauses, and takes another mouthful of cake.

I don't say anything as she chews and swallows, just wait for her to speak.

"It's already getting better, but, like… it's only been a few days, so…" She manages to look at me again . "I don't know why I'm telling you this."

"Because I'm worried," I say, pouring us each a cup of tea, "Are you eating enough?"

She nods, and curls her skinny hands around her teacup "I am now. But I haven't been. It's been… um… It's been difficult."

Then I remember her alarm at the arrival of the cake, and how her first response to my asking her out for coffee was to say she couldn't afford to. And her shoes.

"Money?" I mouth, and she nods.

"Everything's kind of… going to shit at home. Has been for a while." Her voice cracks, and she squeezes her eyes shut again. "My Dad's in intensive care."

I'm really glad I didn't pick up my teacup just now. I'd have dropped it.

"Holy fuck," I whisper, "Is he gonna be OK?"

She shakes her head. "He may or may not come out. It's like that every time he goes in. I… I missed yesterday afternoon."

I nod. "I know. I wondered where you were."

"Oh… You noticed?"

"Of course I noticed! I went looking for you and you weren't anywhere to be found. And Mr Mayes said you'd had to go."

She lowers her eyes, and blots her tears with the handkerchief. "That's why I had to go. Mum called school, to say… to say Dad was in hospital again, and that she'd be by in a few minutes to pick me up."

"Oh, sweetie…" I pat her shoulder, not needing her to explain what she's just implied.

She wouldn't be given permission to leave school unless it was urgent. Unless… her Dad might nearly have…

"He's got this really…" Ffion trails off, squeezing her eyes shut so that she can search for the word. "...Volatile kind of asthma. Like. Anything can set it off. And the pollen's really shit at the moment. Mum reckons he got up to open a window, 'cause it was too hot, and, well… within minutes he was pressing his panic alarm, hoping he'd…" She takes a shaky breath, and presses her hands over her face, sobbing. "Praying that he'd make it until the ambulance arrived. And this time, he did. But what about next time? And the time after that? And the time after that?”

I shake my head. “Ffion, I'm so sorry. I had no idea.”

But she just shakes her head again. “There's no way you could have known,” she says, “It's not like I talk about it at school.”

“Yeah, but... You're from Chase Valley. It's not like we're not neighbours. I mean, sure, you live on the high street, and, well, I don’t, but... I’m not much cop at being part of the local community, if I don’t even realise that, well, someone I know is going through that. ’Is there really nothing to be done?”

She shrugs. “There are experimental treatments, but they don't really work. For anyone. And especially not for him. So, it's really just a matter of time, how much time, exactly, I don’t know, and nor does my mum, and nor does my dad, and nor do any of his doctors. Lupus is really tricky, and, when you combine it with everything else has got, like the asthma, and the chronic fatigue syndrome, and the just generally quite crap immune system...” Ffion shakes her head. “I’m just thankful that he’s made it this far.”

I nod, and reach across the table to hug her—albeit awkwardly, but she looks like she needs a hug more than anything else—and stroke her hair gently.

It’s thin and oily, full of split ends and flyaways and knots, and I catch myself wishing I could brush it for her. But, honestly, I have no idea where I’d start. If she’s had her hair cut, in the last year, I’d be surprised. I’ve never let mine get past my shoulders.

I’ll have to ask Tetty what she does with her hair. And if it would be weird for me to ask Ffion if I could help her with hers.

"I don't want to say everything will be fine," I whisper, resting my chin on her shoulder, "Because we both know I can't make that promise. But I do think you have the strength to survive it. And you don't have to survive it on your own, OK? For a start, you've got me, and you've got Char, and you've got all our friends, so Scott and Lena and Sophie and Etta and Stef and Tim, yeah? And if you're in the GSA, you might talk to some of the others as well, from other classes. My sister's nice, Tetty Benn, so you can go to her, or Lena's brother, or Etta's sister. And you know I bet Patrick and Russell Bird would look out for you if you asked."

Ffion pulls away, and smiles. "You're all such lovely people," she says, "I can't believe I've gone this long without knowing it."

"I mean, in all fairness to you, I've been an absolute tosser, especially recently. It's not an excuse, but I've been so fucking stressed about what's happening with Chris that I've been… lashing out, if that's what to call it. It's not OK, and I'm doing everything I can to make up for it."

She nods, and takes another sip of tea. Her eyes flutter closed for a moment. And then she looks into my eyes. "I want to make up for shitty stuff I've done, too. So… what can I do?"

“Well, I know it is absolutely huge to ask, and you can say no if you want, of course you can say no if you want, but we’re all wondering—my friends, your friends, and I—if you’d consider spying on Chris for us?” The whole sentence comes out at once, like the sudden collapse of a bookshelf onto a sideboard, novels and anthologies knocking figurines and crockery onto the floor. I cling to the sides of the table once I’ve stopped speaking, hoping it might stop the world shaking around me.

But it doesn’t.

Her voice does. “Why would I ever say no to helping you and your friends?”

She pauses.

Then she sighs, obviously acutely aware of all the reasons she’d have said no to spitting on me a week ago. “It’s a hot day, I’m not wasting my saliva on him.” “He’s on fire, and I don’t want to put him out just yet.” But this isn’t a week ago. This is today. And Ffion today is barely recognisable as the same person she was last week. I daresay nor am I.

Because this Ffion—Ffion today—is smiling at me, and eyeing up the last forkful of cake on the plate in front of her, working out when she can snaffle it between sentences. “After all you’ve done for me today, I feel like I owe you more than I can ever repay.”

“I treated you to a pot of tea and a slice of cake!” I say, like it’s nothing, “That’s nothing!” because it is. “You don’t need to repay me—I keep telling you that—it’s a treat for my friend, and a branch.”

“A branch?” Ffion repeats, one eyebrow twitching.

“An olive branch, right? Like after the flood, God sent a pigeon with an olive branch, to say, like, sorry for…” I put my head in my hands. “Just smash the nearest teapot over my head. I have no idea what happened to my train of thought.”

Ffion laughs. “Oh, sweetie,” she says, and there’s a moment of silence after she says it, a spot of tranquillity in amongst the clatter of coffee cups, chatter, and the scraping of chairs in the air around us. She says it again. “Sweetie,” she says, “Sweetie, I’m not entirely sure that’s how the story of Noah’s Ark ended. I mean… I’m not like an expert or anything, but—”

I snuffle a laugh, thinking of Tim, and how hard he’d be cackling at me right now. For a Pacifist, he really can wound a boy sometimes.

“—but I think the rainbow was the apology, and the olive branch was…” I look up to see Ffion frowning slightly, eyes shut, as she tries to remember, “…the sign that everything was going to be OK again. Like, Noah sent the dove to look for dry land, and that was what it brought back.”

“Makes sense,” I say, “Olives are delicious.”

Ffion bursts out laughing. "I'm not quite sure that's why… oh well, never mind. It's quite nice, really, isn't it? To think of a dove flying across the hills in the flooded Valleys, and landing at the nearest delicatessen, because, you know, it really just fancy the snack, and olives, as you say, are delicious."

"Do you reckon the dove brought back some feta cheese as well?" I say, grinning knavishly, "Or hadn't they quite invented it in the earliest of Bible times?"

"Probably not," replies Ffion, "What's feta cheese?"

I shrug, and blow air loudly through my lapped lips. "Not a clue," I admit, "My sister likes it in salads and stuff. But that's all I know about it. I know more about the Bible."

"But that's not saying much," Ffion says, raising her eyebrows and sipping her tea like it's a margarita, and she's at a party, noping out of a conversation before it gets too bitchy (good for her, I've got to say. It's a habit I've never managed to pick up).

"Cheeky!" I exclaim, "Don't read my thoughts like that!"

She giggles, and puts her teacup down gently. "I mean, if you wanted to know more about the Bible, I'd be happy to help. Sometimes I help out at my church's Sunday School, so, you know… Haven't been able to in a year or so, haven't had the time, but…" She smiles. "If you'd be interested."

I remember talking to Mr Mayes yesterday, and saying Ffion had lent me her favourite book. That turned out to be a bit prophetic, didn't it?

Nice.

But that's actually not far from what she's doing here, is it? She's recommending a book to me because she likes it, and thinks I might be interested, too? I don't know if "interested" is the right word, but, yeah, I kind of wonder about the Bible sometimes.

Kind of in the same way I'd struggle to take my eyes off a car crash, morbid fascination, but… yeah, I don't think I'll say that.

Maybe Ffion notices me chewing my lip. Or maybe she actually can read my mind. "If you're worried it says bad things about gay people… you don't need to be. Lena's girlfriend recommended me this website that… well, it's Bible Study, with a focus on LGBT issues, and what God says." She pauses. "It's given me a lot to think about. To reconsider." Another pause. "And it might help you, too. I know you don't really believe in God, but… I think maybe you like reading?"

I nod. "I love reading," I reply, pulling out my writing journal and a gel pen. Purple glitter. "Would you write down the address for me, please?" I turn to the next blank page, and press down the folks, so that the book lies flat on the table.

She takes the pen from me, and, wrapping her pale, skinny fingers around it, writes "Hope Remains," at the tip of the page. Then she looks up, and smiles. "That's the site for Bible study, but, if you want to look at stuff for other faiths, like the Torah, or the Qur'an, there's "Keshet Online," for Jewish LGBT people, and "I am not haraam," for Muslim LGBT people," she says, as she writes.

"Thanks," I say, squeezing Ffion's hands as soon as she's put the pen down. "That's awesome. Did Lena's girlfriend recommend the Jewish and Muslim sites as well, or…"

Ffion shakes her head. "No, I found those on my own. Figured there had to be something out there for other people. Other faiths. So I went looking." She grins. "I had to use the computer at the library in Wooler. Didn't want to risk getting caught at school, and, well…" She raises her eyebrows, and sucks air through her teeth. “At home. Less said, the better.”

I nod, thinking of how my Mum would react if she saw half the stuff I guess I’ll find on the sites Ffion’s recommending. Or, I daresay, on the Rainbow Room, which, thinking about it, reminds me.

“I’ve got a recommendation for you as well,” I say, “Also a website, more like an online magazine than a study-site, you know, but it’s really good, and I’m gonna recommend it to everyone at the GSA.” I grin, and beckon for her to hold out her hand, so that I can write on her palm, tracing purple lines over her skin. “It’s called the Rainbow Room, and it might be my favourite thing on the internet.” I pause. “Hmm. No, it’s actually my favourite thing on the internet.”

Ffion squints at her hand. “What’s it for?”

So I tell her, and then I add, “Nicks recommended it. You know Nicks, from over the border, right?”

“Nicks, whose parents own the tea-rooms, there?” Ffion says. She’s furrowing her brow, and I get the feeling she’s trying to picture someone she doesn’t see very often. In a way--now I think about it--she’s unlikely to see him again… which--now I think about it--is probably a good thing. She’s got a fresh start with Angus. “Red hair? Kind of short?”

“Yeah, yeah,” I say, grinning and nodding, “Angus McNicholas. Nicks! Anyway, he said to check it out, so I did, and then I looked at the clock and it was one in the morning. So, you know...” I grin. “They might kick you out of the library. Unless they let you sleep there. Have you ever slept there?”

Ffion laughs. “Not on purpose. And not overnight.” She shrugs, and rereads the URL on her hand. “You have nice handwriting,” she says. Then she looks up, and beams. “Hey, I guess I’m gonna be seeing a lot more of it, aren’t I? Now that I’m--” She lowers her voice, “--Spying on Chris for you.”

I frown. "How do you mean?"

"Well, I guess we'll be passing notes or something, won't we? About what Chris has got planned, if he has anything planned." She pauses, and swallows hard, shuddering. "I hope he doesn't."

"So do I," I say, reaching for her hand across the table. "But I'm not sure notes are the best idea. What if he finds them, and realises what you're doing? I don't want you in the line of fire."

"Well, we can't meet up, can we?" Ffion says, "Not on any kind of regular basis. We'll get caught eventually. Look, why don't we text each other?" She frowns. "Have we got each other's numbers?"

Ffion's number doesn't strike me as something my phone—which, of course, I got when I still hated her—would have in it, and so, of course, it doesn't.

I shake my head, and pull my phone out of my pocket, unlocking it before passing it to her. "Here," I say, "Pop your number in."

She grins, passed me her own phone, and obliges. "I've put myself in under a false name," she says, "Just in case. Well. It's my real name, but my middle name."

I have a look at the new contact she's made, and smile. ""Niamh,"" I read, "That's really pretty." I laugh. "Promise not to laugh at mine, won't you? It's Thomas."

Ffion giggles. "What's so funny about "Thomas"?"

"It gives my name a weird rhythm," I grumble, "Like, "Gordon Thomas Benn—" sounds like it was going to carry on, but then crashed into a wall."

"Oh, no, it's a lovely name!" Ffion lies, patting my hand, like a doctor reassuring a patient ("It's OK, dying isn't gonna hurt that much."). "And if you stress the "Thom-" part, then it sounds like a three-syllable surname. And those are quite dignified, I think. Like… Beethoven. Tchaikovsky." She puts her nose in the air, and puts on an RP accent. "Thomas-Benn".

And then she catches my eye, and we both splutter with laughter, collapsing onto our elbows. It shouldn't be as funny as it is.

We finish the last of our cake. We help Sophie clear up.

We promise to text each other as soon as "Niamh" and "Tom" are home safely.

And then—for the first time ever—we hug, and say goodbye, and mean it.

"Goodbye" comes from an old contraction of "God be with you." I know Ffion means it. And, if it's for her, I mean it, too.

Chapter 26: Maundy: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Homophobia.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
On Saturday morning, I wake up from a dream about the book Ffion supposedly lent me, and to the urge--the overwhelming urge--to make sure Mr Mayes sees me giving it back to her on Monday at school. The only problem--other than how I’ll make sure Chris sees nothing--is that she hasn’t actually lent me a book.

Guess I’ll have to improvise--good thing I’m doing well in Drama--and lend her one of mine, instead.

Dragging myself out of bed, I put on my glasses and stumble over to my bookshelf, drawing the conclusion I’d have reached in a quick, simple thought, if I’d not just woken up a moment ago.

None of my books will do the trick. I can’t see Ffion being able to take a single one home without… without some kind of consequence. I don’t get the impression that her parents are very lenient.

Let’s not think about how they’d react to “Us Three” by Mia Kerick. Gay polyamory. My favourite. Probably not Mr and Mrs McDade’s favourite.

But I want Mr Mayes to see me hand Ffion a book, so that I won’t have to have lied about giving her a book. Not entirely, at least. “A book she lent me” still won’t be true, but there are limits to what I can do to change time.

More’s the pity.

But it’s not just that I want Mr Mayes to see me hand Ffion a book.

Ffion’s sweet, and I’ve a lot of lost time to make up, being friends with her and I like to treat my friends, hence the tea and cake at the Wainwrights’. If she asks why I’m giving her a book, I’ll tell her it’s a belated birthday present. I’m fairly sure her birthday’s sometime in the spring, so I’ve probably missed it.

And if it’s a birthday present, I can’t very well ask for it back once she’s finished with it, can I? Giving her a cast-off might even be worse!

No, I think it would be best if I just… gave her a book.

I scratch my head as I stagger around my room, still bleary from excess of sleep and lack of coffee, dressing in some cleanish grey jeans and a zippy jacket.

Methinks it be time for a little… spree.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I'm not sure if I like the smell of the Christian bookshop on Prudhoe High Street. It's definitely not a bad smell—it's crisp and clean and bright, almost—but it's not a bookshop smell. And I'm not sure if I know what I mean by that, either.

A bookshop should smell something like an attic, of cardboard and paper and tape, of dust and low light and spiders, of the old and unknown. Like a treasure chest.

But this place smells new, and young, and fresh, as if the books are still branches growing on trees, as if, by opening any given one, I might find a burst of vibrant, verdant leaves growing out of the central stitches.

I walk through the rows of shelves, craning my neck to look at the genre labels. I had no idea there were so many kinds of Christian books. But there are. Romance. Historical. Spiritual. Literary. Classics. And I never really thought about it, but that makes sense. Victor Hugo had a lot to say along the lines of, "be nice to each other or God will be disappointed in you." So of course "Les Misérables" is here.

I'm gonna admit that I don't really understand Ffion's Church, let alone where it stands on "spiritual" issues (or what those are), so I think it's best for me to steer clear of that section, if only for the moment. I don't want to upset her—and ruin all of this—by getting the wrong end of the "God is bread" stick, for example. I know that's not the only stick, but I don't know what the other sticks are, or how many there are only that, if you get them just out of alignment, they'll spell out, "Ha, you fucked up."

So I'm going to leave the spiritual sticks alone, and go and have a look at some of the… less offensive sticks… instead.

Can't go wrong with a bit of genre fiction.

I wander over to the Historical section, and peer at the spines, running my finger along the edge of the shelf, hoping for a title to jump out at me. But none of them do.

What do I do? Ask one of the shop assistants what they recommend? How do I ask a question like that? What would the question even be? "Oh, good afternoon, I was just wondering if you could recommend me a book for my newest friend. I don't know how her faith works, or what kinds of books she likes, or if she reads much at all."

Actually, I tell a lie. I don't think she gets much chance to read, what with taking care of her Dad, and, in any case, books aren't exactly cheap, not if you want to buy them new.

She said her Dad has lupus and a crap immune system. I don't think I'd like to bring strangers' unwanted books into my house if I was in her situation. Old books might have anything on them.

Anyway, I want to get her a new book, a birthday present, so… what might I get her?

I roll back and forth on my feet, heel-toe, heel-toe in my Converse, arms folded, neck hooked forward, eyes flicking from left to right, searching.

The title "When Courage Calls" jumps out of nowhere, so suddenly that I've moved past it by the time I realise I've seen it, and it takes me a good few minutes of squinting to find it again.

I pull it off the shelf, and look at the cover.

A woman in Edwardian dress gazes serenely into the distance, rolling hills and a small church behind her, a leather bound book clasped in her folded arms. The vista of hills, and the wide skies put me in mind of the Cheviots. The woman has brown hair and sharp eyes, and she's looking at something as if she wants to know more about it.

She looks oddly like Ffion.

But Ffion hasn't really waited to courage to call. She's practically jumped into the most dangerous situation I've ever known, and all I had to do was ask if she might want to help. "When Courage Calls," Ffion pounces on the phone, and says, "Yes, I'll do it!"

I turn over the book, and read a blurb about a teacher—called Elizabeth, and I think of Lena with a smirk, Elisabeta—who takes a post in a tiny coal mining village, way out on the Canadian Frontier. And, right away, she sets to work, trying to make life better for her pupils and their families.

Hard work. Selflessness. Compassion. Kindness.

Now that I know Ffion, I know that's her, and I know this is the perfect book to give her: one where someone like her gets to be the main character, the heroine, the one who saves the day.

The author's name is Janette Oke. I catch myself wondering if she knows—or once knew—someone like Ffion, and decided to immortalise her in Elizabeth's character, preserving her in text.

Someone ought to. Goodness needs remembered.

With a smile, I turn the book back over, and touch the main character's face with my fingertips. "Yeah, I like you," I say to her, "Let's introduce you to someone else I like, yeah?"

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I wander out into the High Street with Ffion’s book bought and bagged, along with a beautiful ballpoint pen I couldn’t resist; the barrel’s pattered like a rose window, for goodness’ sake. What was I supposed to do? Dream of it wistfully until next time I can come to Prudhoe? I don’t think so, Officer.

Sun streaming down to warm my face, I take a little trek up to the castle and back. Once I’ve snapped a few delightful selfies against the yellow bricks, and taken a little video of myself rolling down the grassy hill, of course. Gonna send those to Scott and Angus, as revenge for the way they make me dizzy.

I wince at the data cost, and send the video off, along with two choice selfies, one with the angel filter, the other in black and white, with me gazing off into the distance, pen sticking out of my mouth like a cigarette. I wouldn’t be out of place in a film-noir. But I probably wouldn’t be in Prudhoe, so I’m almost glad I’m not.

In the distance, I hear the swell of a gospel choir. I guess that’s a church service or something.

Doesn’t sound bad, if I’m being fair, and I’m trying to be fair. It sounds nice, actually, and I catch myself closing my eyes, the better to follow the faint melody.

Ooh. I think I might recognise it, be able to pick up the lyrics, even, if I just got a little closer....

“Come on and walk in faith and victory, for the Lord--”

I have to stand right outside Prudhoe Baptist Church to hear it clearly, but I can’t help bobbing along in time to the music, and, once I’m there, I can’t help singing along, either.

“--Your God! Is wi-i-ith you!”

I guess it’s quite a nice thought if you believe it, isn’t it? God’s a friend, who’s there for you, hanging around in case you need… well, not a hug, because I don’t know if God has arms in the traditional sense, but… something like a hug.

Tim’ll know.

Actually, so will Ffion, and, unlike Tim, she might not laugh at me if I ask her.

Applause and cheering boom from the church, and I startle as the door clatters open right next to me, and three dozen people flood out onto the High Street.

Among them, I realise, are Ffion and her parents: her mother pushing her father in a rickety silver wheelchair, as Ffion limps along beside them.

Her fingertips are red-raw, and stained with dried blood. But she catches my eye, and beams, giving me a discreet wave, but then looking away quickly, before her parents see.

Fair enough.

There's an oxygen cylinder attached to the back of her Dad's wheelchair, and there are dark circles under his bloodshot eyes. In his pale, thin face, I can see the resemblance to Ffion. I wish it was more than obvious undernourishment. He looks like all his energy has been stolen from him, slurped away through a straw. The backs of his hands are bruised, as if they’ve been slammed in a car door.

I look away quickly, knowing I shouldn’t stare. It’s rude. It’s intrusive. I might not be able to make him better, but at least I can make sure I don’t take his dignity.

I might not be able to make him better, but at least I can make his daughter feel cared-for, appreciated. Be a friend to her, like I should have been a friend to her from the start.

Ffion’s steps are tiny, the pain of her feet radiating from her like some kind of halo, and my eyes drift to her shoes again. They’re the same ruined ones she wears to school every day.

Something about a hair-shirt crossed my mind. Didn’t people used to wear clothes that were deliberately uncomfortable, to atone for their sins? What if I can get Ffion something more comfortable, so that it’s clear to her that she has nothing to atone for? Whether or not that’s why she’s wearing them. What’s the word for it? Reprieve? Like relief? It’s what she needs.

I can’t have her know I did it. But I can do it, secretly, make just one thing easier for her. For my friend.

So why wouldn’t I?

One benefit of having divorced parents--not as big as the relief that comes when you stop hearing them argue every night--is that the one who finally walked out tries to keep in touch with us by stuffing money our way every month. I’m not talking about Child Support, mind, although he pays that, too. I’m talking about the hundred quid he sends each of us every month, and I’ve still got quite a bit left over from the most recent one.

And I know exactly what I can do with it. I just didn’t realise until now that I knew.

Checking behind me, in case Ffion might be catching me up for a chat (but she’s walking away towards to other end of the High Street), I fold the carrier bag neatly around the book, put the book into my satchel, and head for the shop where I’ve always gone for my school shoes.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

It’s not until I get there that I realise I don’t know Ffion’s shoe-size. That’s, uh… going to make matters a bit, uh… tricky, to say the last. But it’s not like I can hang around and wait for her to take her shoes off in front of me (and why ever would she?). And it’s not like I can ask her, either. That would give it away, and, anyway, I don’t want to delay this for a single moment more.

Those shoes must be agony.

I would do this for Char, I would do this for Etta, for Soph, and for Lena.

I would do it in a blink.

Well. Not quite a blink. It’s going to take a little longer than that to find a nice pair of shoes. I don’t want to rush it.

“Can I picture her feet?” I wonder as I browse the racks. “Yes,” I think, with a wince, as I remember those bloody blisters. But I can also make a guess at her shoe-size, holding up the nearest shoe, and comparing it to the picture in my mind. A little smaller, I think Ffion’s feet are a little smaller than this. A size? Half a size? What if her feet are still growing? I think Tetty’s feet are still growing, and she’s older than either of us.

Better go with “half a size smaller”, then, in case Ffion grows. Or in case I’m picturing her feet as smaller than they really are. To be safe.

I glance inside the shoe in my hand, see it’s a size six, and put it back, so that I can go looking for size five-and-a-half.

Something smart, obviously. Something black, so that she can wear the shoes to school. And they should be pretty, I think firmly, because Ffion deserves pretty things, so that she can feel beautiful.

I lean forward and examine a pair of Mary Janes, black patent leather with a graceful little heel, and silver buckles engraved with tiny flowers. Try to picture them on Ffion’s feet, picture her striding confidently and comfortably across the quad, or up the High Street, or along the beach at Chase Valley Lake.

Happy? Happy. As she should be.

I take about an hour to look at all the other shoes in the section--brogues, pumps, flats, mules and loafers--to be sure that these shoes are the right ones. All the others are gorgeous, yes, but they’re too high in the heel, or too flimsy, or they have colour details on them that Ffion couldn’t wear to school.

But I’m sure she’ll get away with these ones quite easily, and I hope she’ll like them, to boot. (Ha.) They’re pretty, and, honestly, in another life, I might have gone for them myself.

I take them to the counter and pay, pretending I don’t see the odd look--raised eyebrows, curled lip--the cashier gives me as if it’s a shred of her business what I buy. Why shouldn’t I pick up a pair of women’s shoes?

By the time I get back onto the High Street, I’m grinding my teeth from the effort of playing it cool.

So when I collide with some greasy little kid, I’m not in the best state to be polite.

Especially when I see his face. Because it’s my cousin, Paul.

“Ew, what are you doing here?” he snaps, brushing his hands over his shoulders, like he’s dusting off something disgusting.

“Walking,” I reply, “And looking where I’m going.” It’s not the truth, but I’m not gonna tell Paul that. The last thing I need is to have Paul ratting me out to Mum. I’m not really even meant to be at home.

“Oh, yeah, then why’d you crash into me?” demands Paul, curling his lip.

“Because you ran at me, and I didn’t see you, you little twerp,” I reply, keeping my voice flat, and my face fixed in a big, convincing smile, just in case Mum should be on duty nearby. She probably isn’t, but I’d rather not take chances.

“Yeah, and how’s that my fault?” mutters Paul, folding his arms and looking around insolently. “Where the fuck did she go?”

I look where he’s looking, but I can’t see anyone obvious in the Saturday crowds. “Who?” I ask, peering.

“None of your business,” snaps Paul, cupping his hands around his mouth so that he can shout down the High Street.

“Ange! Angie!”

Huh. Apparently it isn't my business, but it is the business of the entirety of Prudhoe High Street. I wonder how he's worked that one out, and then I remember I don't actually care.

But why would Etta’s little sister go to Prudhoe with my grubby toad of a cousin? Why would anyone go anywhere with him? I keep away from the corner shop if I so much as think he might be there!

Maybe the curl in my lips gives away my thoughts on whatever’s going on, because Paul snorts with explosive laughter, and sneers at me. “What are you gawping at?”

I shrug. “Dunno, reckon the label’s dropped off.” I lean a little forward and squint at his papery face. “It could be some kind of troglodyte, but I’ll have to phone up the National History Museum and book an evaluation, just to be sure it’s not the missing link.”

Paul steps forward to dig his heel into the top of my foot, and I jump back, scowling.

“Prick!” I snap.

“Dickhead!” he retorts, “Fucking faggot! Do you think I don’t know what people have been saying about you? I do! I know!”

I clasp my hands together and beam at him. “Oh, my God, do you?!” I exclaim, clapping my hands and hopping up and down on the spot. “Oh, wow, tell me everything! I’ve been away from Chase Valley, shopping, like, for nearly two whole hours! What have I missed?”

Paul glares at me. “You know it reflects badly on me when people are saying things like that about my cousin, don’t you? Because they assume I condone it. And I think you know I don’t. And I think you know you should stop.” He raises his eyebrows, and flattens his mouth into a single straight line.

“Stop what?” I say, putting my palm on my chest and batting my eyes. “Stop being talked about? Then how’ll I get my scandal fix?! I live for it! I need it! Where else will I get the energy to stumble across the fields in a long, white nightgown at midnight, hair blowing in the wild wind, tears streaming down my face, smudging my mascara, emphasising the tortured lines of my anguished expression? How, Paul?! How do you expect me to live if people stop talking about me?” I stop, and roll my eyes. "Obviously I know what people are saying, you tosser. And I don't care if you "condone" it or not. It's not about you."

"Yeah, well, everyone knows we're related," Paul replies, "And, when people see me, they always ask if it's true that you're gay, and I'm fucking sick of it."

"I've been out for quite a few days," I say, "And I wasn't hiding before, just that nobody noticed. Hardly my fault if other people can't tell the difference between the truth and a rumour, is it, now?"

Paul scowls. "I've got my reputation to uphold. Don't want people associating me with—" He makes a gesture, at once obscenely inaccurate and inaccurately obscene, repeatedly jabbing the tips of his index fingers together and spitting, "That!"

Ah, yes, the age-old sign for "gay sex". No, I'm kidding, it's the sign for "pain" or "ouch". Do it in front of your forehead, and it's "headache". Very slightly different. Probably.

I narrow my eyes at him. "Do you genuinely think that's how I—" I sigh heavily. "Forget it. Not like it's any of your business anyway." Not like I'm ready for that yet, anyway. Well. The accurate version. I don't think I can apply "yet" to the way Paul seems to think it works.

Sheesh.

"I mean, if you want to make it very clear you're not associated with it, by all means, burn me in effigy in the middle of the quad, but, until then, I think it's mostly your own fault that people think you "condone" it, or whatever. And I have to ask… don't you? Isn't it OK for me to be gay?"

"No!" Paul explodes, "It's disgusting! Why can't you just be fucking normal?!"

I take a step back. ""Normal"?" I repeat, "I'm not the one having a tantrum in the middle of Prudhoe High Street. See anyone else doing that?"

Paul turns purple. He shoves me in the chest, but I just lean back, letting him, and spring forward again as soon as he relents.

"You know I've got anger management problems!" he snarls.

"Yeah, I'd guessed that, sure," I reply calmly, "But they're not my problems, so keep them away from me, yeah?" I turn to walk away, but then I spot Angie jogging up the street towards us.

"Heya, babe, what's going on?" she says, slinging her arm around Paul's shoulder. She looks at him, and then looks at me, and grins. "Gordon! What brings you to Prudhoe?"

"Ah, just a little bit of shopping," I say, pulling my satchel around to show her.

"Ooh, very nice," she says, "What did you get?"

Oh, and there goes all my confidence in my ability to lie. I am shit at it, aren't I? How's it going to look if I say I've got a Christian Romance novel and a pair of Mary Janes in my bag? She'll think I'm being sarcastic. If I don't think of something quickly, I'll come off as a liar, no matter what I say.

But then I remember what Angie said a moment ago, what she said to Paul. "Babe," she said, although it's only hitting me now.

"Wait a second," I say, "Is this a date you're on? Are you together?"

"Oh yeah," Angie says, just as Paul snaps, "None of your fucking business!" and grabs my satchel off my shoulder.

"What's in here, then?" He yanks it open, barely acknowledging the zip, despite my yells and attempts to wrestle it off him. "A shit book and a…" He wrinkles his nose. "Box of something. What do you want with a box?"

Angie smacks him on the shoulder, saying, "Give it back!" in a scolding voice he ignores.

He stares at me. "Well, go on, then," he says, "What's in the box?"

"Oh, shit, sorry, did I go to the airport by accident again?" I tut loudly. "I'm always doing that." With a proper heave, I manage to snatch my bag back off him, aiming a swift kick at Paul's shin for good measure. I miss, but that's beside the point. "Thank you," I say, zipping my bag carefully shut and slinging the strap back over my shoulder.

"Give it here!" Paul snarls, grabbing at it.

But I step back, and give him a cheeky grin. "Oh, I'm afraid I can't let you do that, Dave."

"Why?" demands Paul, as if it's any of his business at all, "What have you got in there?"

"Shoes," I say, remembering that Lemony Snicket once said the best way of keeping a secret is by telling it to everyone as a joke, "Secret shoes."

""Secret shoes"?" repeats Paul, folding his arms and glaring at me. "Do you think I'm an idiot?"

"You know I do," I reply dismissively, "Next question."

Paul moves to slap me, but Angie pins his arms down, and whispers in his ear.

What the Hell does she see in him?

"What the fuck is the point of secret shoes?" Paul snaps, "You couldn't wear them anywhere," he says, making a surprisingly astute observation for someone who hasn't twigged I'm bullshitting him.

"Yes, I can. I'm going to wear them around the house. Secretly. Don't tell anyone."

Paul sneers at me. "You're lying," he hisses, "I bet you came here to spy on us, and you're just saying you've been shopping to make us think you weren't."

"Nope," I reply.

"Show us the shoes, then!" Paul snaps, not realising that Angie's taken a seat on a nearby bench, pulled out her phone, and started texting away.

"Ooh, Paul, you're very interested in my shoes, aren't you?" I say, sucking air through my teeth. "Hmm, maybe it's not just family connections that are making people think you're gay."

"And what's that supposed to mean?!" His eyes have turned to stone, eyebrows trembling with rage, face somehow even more purple than it was a moment ago.

"Family resemblance," I say, not meaning the expression, "You know what they say, being gay's probably genetic, and, well, you know we share all four grandparents, so…" I shrug, letting him join the dots my dad and his brother drew when they married my mum and her sister. "I'm much closer related to you than, say, Angie and Etta are to Gina and Alex. Or than we are." Got to love Chase Valley, or should I say "Habsburgsville"?

"What are you saying?" Paul narrows his eyes at me.

"That if it is genetic, you've probably got it, too" I reply, pointing my index finger into his face as I say "got it". Then I grin cheerily. "You never know. Maybe you just need to let the thought in."

Angie snaps her phone shut and comes back to stand next to Paul. "My mum's coming to pick us up in about twenty minutes," she says to him. Then she turns to me, and smiles. "Gordon, mate, do you want a lift?"

I imagine myself riding all the way back to Chase Valley in the back of a car with Paul in it. Obviously, it would be rude to ask that he ride in the boot, so I smile at Angie, and shake my head. "No, thanks, sweetie, I've got a few more errands to run first."

"What errands?" Paul demands.

"I want to have a little poo."

"Ugh, that's disgusting!" he exclaims, aiming a kick at my knee, but missing, "Don't tell me that, or I'll—" He pauses. Furrows his brow. Thinks really hard, if that's where that awful smell's coming from. "I'll tell Auntie Maria that you've been bullying me!"

Now he folds his arms triumphantly, and Angie stops having to stifle her giggle, because, in a single sentence, this has stopped being funny, and she knows that.

"You're gonna get in so much trouble," Paul informs me, like a doctor talking a patient through a procedure, "She's probably gonna ground you again, and then where'll you be?"

I glance at Angie, and sign, "What are you doing with him?"

She shrugs, and looks away, which isn't exactly reassuring. I wonder for a moment if I should tell Etta about this, and then I realise Angie probably told her before anyone else, as soon as she and Paul started going out. She already knows, and she’s at least twice as sensible as I am, so she’s probably already working out how to break them up before everything falls irrevocably to absolute shite.

Ah, fine, it’s fine. I’ll just ask her about it on Monday at school, if I don’t bump into her before then.

I hang around Prudhoe for a while after I get away from Paul, and I go sunbathing on the castle grass, to kill time before the bus comes for me.

I did say I had errands. It wasn’t a lie. The poo was a lie. I don’t poo. I’ve got to get a bit of sunshine, and maybe a little tan. Don’t think I need a nap, but I might grab one just quickly, anyway.

Pulling my sunglasses out of their case and switching them out with my regular glasses, I lean back on my elbows and lower myself onto the soft, green grass.

Ah, summer. Why do you only live up North in June, July and August? It feels like you only come to visit when you feel guilty that it’s been so long since the last time.

“Oy, oy, Dr Benn,” says Lena’s voice, and a prod in the tummy makes me open my eyes to see that it is, true to form, attached to Lena’s body. She’s standing right in front of me, right in my light, which is more annoying than it really should be.

Then again, I’ve never spent a Saturday in Prudhoe and seen this many people I know here. I must be four by now, right? Ffion, Angie, Paul--ugh--and now Lena. That’s four.

“Gordle!” exclaims Sophie (oh, my mistake--five people), bounding up the path and making me worry I’ll bump into Chris next. She flings herelf onto the grass next to me. “How are you, then, my favourite chap?”

“Oh, have I replaced Tim in your affections? Who’s gonna tell him?” I sit up, leaning on my hands, and grin at her, then at Lena. “What are you two doing here?”

“We’ve been to Lena’s girlfriend’s house,” Sophie replies, nodding at Lena, “Went swimming in her pool, didn’t we?”

“Aw, cool!” I say, “Hey, how come you haven’t introduced me to your girlfriend yet, Szczeppi?”

Lena scratches her chin. “Huh, maybe it’s ‘cause you’d call me Szczeppi in front of her, and then give her an even stupider nickname, um… or… or maybe not. Gee, Gordle, what do you think?”

“I have never thought anything in my entire life,” I reply haughtily, glaring at her over the tops of my sunglasses, and then immediately regretting it and having to scrunch my eyes shut before I screw my eyes up. “Ow. See, I didn’t think that one through, did I?”

“You’re right. It was spectacularly on-brand,” Sophie says, “What’s in your bag?”

I shrug. “Shoes. Book. Pen. Writing journal. The usual”

She laughs. “Do you usually carry shoes in your bag? Or are these ones special, just for walking around Prudhoe? Or are they your famous dancing shoes?”

“You know very well--as I’ve said so before--that all my shoes are dancing shoes,” I reply, “No, these are new ones, from the shoeshop.”

“Oh, wow, then we must’ve just missed you,” Lena says, “We popped in for a little browse, ourselves.”

“Oh, what?!” I exclaim, “You mean I missed meeting your girlfriend?! Bloody Hell. I’m literally going to fight God when I next see him.” Fucking Hell. “Here, how come Soph gets to meet her, and all this, and not me? ”

Lena shrugs. “Ah, wrong place, wrong time. Maybe another weekend?”

Well, if you ask me, Prudhoe on this exact day and this exact time sounds exactly like the perfect place and perfect time, but I’m not about to say so.

“I wasn’t talking to you, sweetie,” I reply, nodding to her before glaring at the sky and shaking my fist at the nearest cloud. “Just you wait, Mr God! I know where you live!”

“Thought you didn’t believe in God,” says Sophie dryly.

I scoff. “As if I have to believe in something to go after it with a stick.”

Sophie snorts with laughter. “Non-existence is no barrier. Gordon will chase after the Tooth Fairy if she looks sideways at him.”

Now it’s Lena’s turn to laugh, and it’s a scandalous little giggle. “And he’ll go after Father Christmas if he so much as gives him the eye,” she adds, “That’s his Sugar Daddy.”

I shove my index fingertip against my glasses’ bridge, to push the frames further up my nose. “Damn right,” I mutter, grinning as I picture aiming a ship’s cannon at Santa’s sleigh.

“Did you want to get the bus back?” Lena asks me, “Me and Soph were gonna."

“Sure,” I say, and, about twenty minutes later, we’re all crammed into a pair of seats near the back of the bus, Sophie on my lap, Lena holding our bags on hers.

Sometimes it’s extremely convenient to be short, and have short friends. You can hide behind the seats in a bus, for example, so that the bus driver doesn’t see you and get the wrong idea, when all you are doing is saving a little bit of space by holding your pal on your lap like some kind of cat.

If the cat in question goes to church. And wears a crucifix. And thinks God is bread.

Basically, if it’s a Cat-holic, is what I’m saying. Before too very long, I’ll be on my way to Hell for saying things like that.

Or maybe Lena will just murder me. Maybe, if I ask really nicely, she’ll do it just before we go back to school in September! That way, I’ll get all the joy of the summer holidays--which don’t even start for, what is it? Another three of four weeks?--without the hassle of traipsing down to the bus stop at 7am for the start of Year Eleven, and GCSEs-in-earnest. Even the notion.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

About an hour later, Lena’s waking up from a mid-afternoon nap--oh, so she’s like a cat as well--and Sophie’s taught me how to plait hair.

I have a very messy headband braid worked into my fringe, yes, but I’ve managed quite a nice woven-in plait--which Sophie tells me I’ve done in the Dutch style, though I’ve no clue what that means--across the back of her head. It starts just above her right ear, and sweeps diagonally down, to finish just below her left.

Lena blinks sleepily, and grins at Sophie. “Ooh, been to the salon?”

Soph beams, and nods vigorously. “Gordon said he wanted to learn how to plait, so I taught him. And he’s not bad at it.”

“I’m not good at it either,” I reply, gesturing to the braid across my forehead, and then tracing the path of a tear down my cheek as Lena bursts out laughing.

“Oh, mate, that’s something else!” she exclaims, pulling her phone out of her pocket and taking a picture too quickly for me to get a protest in. “Ha, I’m gonna send that to Scott as the “before” shot, just as soon as I’ve fixed… that for you!” She points at my plait, and laughs, before teasing it undone, and working a new one across my hairline. “Ah, beautiful! Look how it matches your eyes!” she crows.

“Made of hair!” Sophie shouts, but then the bus rumbles to a halt, and we all lurch forward against the seats in front of us.

“Please tell me this is your stop!” snaps the bus driver, twisting around in his seat, and staring at the three of us, who are staring back over the tops our our seats. “Because I’m not taking you a yard further if you don’t stop screaming!”

Wondering if that attitude would make him brilliant or terrible at kidnapping--and it’s not an easy call to make--I look out of the window, and realise we’re in the middle of Wooler. “Mesdames, can you walk from here?”

Lena looks out, and nods, and then so does Sophie.

Together, the three of us amble sheepishly down the aisle and past the driver, who tuts at us all as we give him our apologies.

And then we’re racing each other back through the woods to Chase Valley--Lena carrying Sophie on her back--and my hair’s coming out of the gorgeous plait Lena’s made for me, and Soph’s whooping with laughter, and this is something I’m going to remember.

Just as clearly as if I had a photograph of this moment. Why do I have this feeling? I don’t know.

Maybe it’s the summer heat, or the sunbaked dirt tracks through the undergrowth, or the deer we see charging across the path, a hundred yards in front of us. They’re just blurry figures, bounding through the trees. Kind of like us, really.

My knees hit dirt with a thud, and then my hands crash into mud-embedded stones, and I swear.

Sophie yelps, and Lena’s putting her down, quickly, quickly, so that they can both help me to my feet.

We’re three quarters of a string quartet at the airport, and I’m the unfortunate cellist. Lena and Soph are the two violinists, and the violist died of the plague. Still, the world can celebrate later, I’m sure.

I dust myself down, brushing caked mud off my sore knees, back to the treacherous ground it came from. That’ll teach it a thing or two.

"Are you OK, sweetie?" Lena says, wrapping her arm around my shoulders and peering at me.

"Fine, fine," I reply, headbutting her gently in the side of the neck. Then I slide out of her hug, and fix my eyes on the ground. "One treacherous boy!" I snap, stamping on the nearest root.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When I get home, and kick the door shut behind me, there's a crash from upstairs, and then the sound of running feet across the landing. A shadow flickers down the stairs, and then disappears again. A door slams, the sound like a gunshot.

I reach into my jeans pocket, pull out the penknife I got when I was still a Scout, and flick it open with a click. Then I tiptoe up the stairs, keeping my left shoulder braced against the wall, and my left hand wrapped tightly around the strap of my bag.

I don't breathe. I can't breathe.

My heart pounds, and black spots appear in front of my eyes. A stair creaks under my foot, and electric shocks burst through my body.

Whoever's here heard that noise. Knows I'm here. And if it were anyone that was meant to be here—Mum, Tetty, Jake, even Dad—they wouldn't have run across the floor and hidden in… the bathroom? Was it the bathroom door I heard, or the study?

One thing's certain: whoever's here must have heard that creaking step, but nobody has come to confront me. Whoever it is, they're lying in wait for me. They know I'm here, so there's no point trying to be quiet anymore.

I dash up the stairs, and kick open the bathroom door, thrusting the knife forward in front of me, and yelling, "Don't make me use this!"

And then I realise who's standing in front of me, wide-eyed and shaking, and, for some reason, shirtless.

"It's only me!" Archie yells, shielding his face with his arms, panting, and scrambling to the floor.

Clumsily, I shut the knife, and out it away, above it into my trouser pocket. "Shit, fuck, are you sorry?" The words fall out of my mouth in no logical order, and, after a moment, I realise I haven't said what I meant to say. I squeeze my eyes shut, press my hand against my pulsating collarbones, and try again. "Shit, fuck, I'm so sorry, are you OK?"

Archie sits down on the side of the bath, shaking, his head bent, his chest heaving. He shudders, and then nods vigorously. "Yeah, yeah, I'm fine, don't worry. Wasn't expecting to see you."

"Well, yeah, I gathered that," I reply, gesturing at his chest, "Guessing you're here with Tetty."

"Well, yeah, I'm not getting my nipples out for Jake," Archie says, grinning, "At least, not this evening. So, uh, is the knife for me, or—"

I shake my head.

Archie nods slowly. "OK… then why are you trying to stab me?!"

"Coming back at you with “why are you shirtless?”” I exclaim.

“Coming back at you with “why are you trying to stab me?”” Archie retorts, just as Tetty prods me in the back with a pointy finger.

“Yeah, Gordon, care to explain?” she says, raising her eyebrows, “Were you hoping it was me, or--”

“No, no, God, no,” I reply, leaning against the wall and shaking my head as I fold the knife up and put it away. “No, I thought it was someone else. Like a burglar or something. Or...”

“Chris?” Tetty asks quietly.

Tears burn, and I shut my eyes. I nod.

“Oh, sweetie, come here,” she says, wrapping her arms around me and hugging me to her. She’s wearing her dressing gown, a massive fluffy thing that makes her look like a friendly--if often grumpy--yak. “You don’t have to worry about him. Nobody’s gonna let him hurt you.”

Archie pats me on the shoulder. “You’re safe, Gordon,” he says, “Just as much as Lena’s safe, OK? You’ve got the GSA on side, and you’ve got both of us, right here, right now, and nobody’s gonna let him hurt you.”

“Is that why you were carrying a knife?” Tetty whispers.

I nod again, starting to shake.

“Oh, little one, no,” Tetty says, “That’s got to stop right now.” She lets me go, and then grabs my shoulders, to hold me at arm’s length. She bends down in front of me, so that she’s at eye-level. “You can’t carry a knife around with you.”

“It’s only my pen-knife,” I mumble, digging it out of my pocket to show her, “From Scouts, you remember. Dad got it for me.”

“Yeah, well, I don’t think this is the kind of thing he had in mind,” Tet says, swiping the knife out of my hand and shoving it into the pocket of her dressing gown before I can argue. “Look, what would Mum say if she knew you were carrying a knife? Do you really want to open that box?” She sighs. “Come on, Gordon. You know better than that.”

“You haven’t been taking it to school, have you?” Archie says, taking hold of my shoulder and turning me around to look at him.

“Oh, fucking Hell, Gordon, you’d better not have been!” Tetty calls, and I realise that she’s somehow managed to run out of the bathroom and into her own room, across the landing.

“Of course not!” I snap at both of them, choking on my tears. “No, of course not! I just took it with me today, in case I ran into trouble in Prudhoe.”

In case Chris happened to be at the bus stop. In case Chris happened to be in the bookshop. In case Chris happened to be in my house.

I don’t need to say it. Archie sees it in my face, and squeezes my shoulder. “I’m gonna go and put my shirt on, and then I’m gonna give you a hug,” he says, “‘Cause I feel like it would be very weird for all of us if I just went ahead.”

At least that makes me laugh.

Tetty re-emerges from her room about a minute after Archie goes in, and she’s clad in pyjamas and sequined slipper-boots. “I think we should all have a cup of tea,” she says, pulling her dressing gown on and tightening the belt as she pads over to the bathroom doorway and ruffles my hair.

"I'll pop the kettle on," I say, nodding, and hugging her one more time before popping downstairs to the kitchen.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Mum gets home from work at about ten to midnight, by which time, of course, Archie’s gone home, and Tetty’s straightened her bed to remove all trace of the untoward.

Yeah, turns out Archie thought I was my Mum when I got back from Prudhoe. That’s why he ran into the bathroom. Such a shame the silly goose left his shirt in Tetty’s bedroom, or he’d probably have gotten away with it. But I guess none of that matters.

I lie awake all the while, unable to close my eyes for even a moment. Every time I blink, the darkness of my room is replaced by a vision of my kicking down the bathroom door to find Chris standing over Archie, kitchen knife in his hand. Archie, not shirtless and yelling, but motionless and bleeding. Tetty screaming. Chris lunging.

And my eyelids burst open, as violently as if I’ve woken to the sound of an explosion in the next street. What does it matter that everything turned out fine? It could have been so terrible, so easily, and all because of me, of what I have brought down on our house.

Now I understand why people in the olden days got scared of witches. It’s less sickening to believe you’re cursed for some unknown reason--by some unassuming woman with a nice cat--than to know, to know for sure, that all the terrible things befalling your family are your own fault. It’s good to be afraid of witches. Witches and their curses are comforting. Homophobes and their vendettas are not. So much for villages like Chase Valley being stuck in the past. If this were the thirteenth century, I’d never have dreamed of coming out. And none of this would have happened.

A car door bumps shut outside, and then the front door rattles open and closed. Mum’s home. I hear her coming up the stairs, and lie on my side, duvet drawn up over half my face--like a bandit’s bandana--so that she won’t see that I’ve got my eyes open, or my day-clothes on.

Her footsteps stop outside my door, and then she opens it, and sticks her head in, as a bright yellow shaft of light spreads across my ceiling and floods my bedroom floor. “Gordon, are you awake?” she says.

I don’t make a sound. I’m like the tree nobody talks about, the tree that sees its neighbour fall, but just minds its own damn business.

It seems to work. Mum shuts my door a moment later, and I listen for her sock-feet on the landing, into the bathroom--where he spends a good long while brushing her teeth--and then into her bedroom. A light goes out on the landing. One more door closes, and that’s it for the night.

As soon as I’m sure of it--and I do wait a moment to be sure--I swing my legs out of bed, open up my rucksack, and pull out the shoes I got for Ffion. They’re still in their box, and, as I switch my desk lamp on to have a proper look at them, I realise I’ve forgotten how prettily-made they are, how comfortable and smart they look, compared to the shoes Ffion’s been wearing for…

How long has she been wearing those broken things? Well, she won't have to wear them anymore. She won't even have to wear them tomorrow, swear down, I'll make sure of it.

I take a Sharpie, write Ffion's name on the lid of the box—in my best handwriting, which very few people have ever seen, and those have mostly been teachers—and tuck the box into my satchel, drawing the zip up slowly, with a quiet hum.

With that on my back, I lace up my shoes, turn out the lights, and tiptoe out of my room, leaving the door to, and then crawling down the stairs on all fours.

Tetty taught me how to move noiselessly about a year ago. She sometimes sneaks out to see Archie at night. Not every night. Not tonight.

Tonight, I can hear her snoring in her room, quieter and quieter as I sneak into the kitchen, pull open a drawer, and dig through it slowly enough to avoid a din.

Bloody Tetty, nicking my fucking penknife. What exactly was the point of taking it? Hiding it, probably somewhere in her room? What damage—what serious damage can I reasonably inflict with a fucking penknife? Very little. Just enough to defend myself if Chris kicks off, just enough to throw him while I scarlet.

All the smaller kitchen knives are too blunt to be any good as a weapon, or they're the wrong shape.

So, because my darling sister has forbidden me to carry my penknife, my only option is to take one of the massive fuck-off carving knives from the kitchen. You know the kind I mean. The kind that makes you glad you're not a turnip.

"I doubt that's safer than a penknife, Tetty," I mouth, glaring at the ceiling where her bedroom huddles above.

But I take the smallest carving knife, just in case I do run into trouble, and then I creep into the living room, open the sash window with a soft creak, and clamber out into the flowerbed.

Sorry, pansies. Sorry, alyssum. You'll grow back, right? I really hope you'll grow back, if only so that I can grow up.

I clamber over the front gate, and hurry out of the cul de sac, onto the High Street, where Ffion lives.

The village is uncomfortably dark around me, the kind of darkness that whispers in your ear and breathes down your neck, and tells you all the horrible things it has in store for you. Sometimes I'm good at walking in the dark. This isn't one of those times.

I grip the knife handle so tightly I think my fingers will fuse with the steel. Good, I think. Then I'd never have to worry about leaving my weapon at home again.

Breaking into a sprint that only slows as I get within sight of Ffion's house, of her Mum's car squatting in the driveway—which calls to mind all the scowls I've had shot at me through its windscreen—I outrun the shadows by enough that I can walk up and set the box down on the stone slab doorstep.

I can't help glancing up at the windows, and smiling at the one I'd like to think is Ffion's. Crouching down in front of the box, I kiss my fingertips, and then press them to her name.

And then I run, satchel thumping against the backs of my thighs, chasing me back home again.

Chapter 27: Respect: Char
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Intimate Partner Violence / PTSD.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
Ugh, Monday morning. Literally only exists to stop me wearing red lipstick or nail polish, which, quite honestly, is some massive bullshit, and I shall be making a complaint, just as soon as I’ve figured out where to send it. Can I just… chuck it at the sky? I don’t know. That seems a bit too simple to be likely. Hmm. I’ll have to ask Tim how you ask God to cancel Mondays, or, at the very least, to cancel them until they can get their act together.

School. School is always so much more annoying and inconvenient on a Monday, I find. Maybe it’s just because Monday comes immediately after a weekend of being able to do whatever I want, once I’ve finished my shift at the Wainwrights’ tea-rooms. From lunchtime on Saturday, I’m as free as an extraordinarily beautiful bird, which is, I’ve got to say, the absolute tits.

I can row, swim, paint, braid my hair, go on a walk with Lumi, get a little bit saucy with Stefan, do whatever I want--as I’ve said--until bedtime on Sunday.

And then it’s back to slogging through mountains of school work, ugly pleated skirts and boring shoes, makeup subtle enough to disappear on inspection of my face, and, ugh, only banter and Art lessons to keep me from dying of boredom until the bell rings at twenty-past three. And believe me, I count the minutes. I count the seconds.

Quite honestly, if it weren’t for my friends, I think I’d have snapped a long time ago, thrown my pants off the roof or something, just to make life at Wooler Water a tiny bit nearly interesting.

Well. I might have done, if June had passed like May. But it didn’t, did it? June passed in a way none of us could have expected, and now July’s here, and none of it’s any fucking better, and, truth told, I’m fucking scared. Just as scared as Gordon is, just as scared as Lena is, and if it weren’t for Stef, I would have made a very stupid decision a decent chunk of a while ago.

Leapt out of the closet, the day Lena was outed, taken some of the heat off her, if only just for a moment, but then I looked at Stef just before I did, and I knew I couldn’t do that to him, couldn’t scare him like that, coming out in that kind of situation. And the tears came, like they did for so many people that day.

I wish I could bring Lumi to class with me. She’s a very smart pupper, and she’s a good, heavy baby, who does the best cuddles. It would be nice to bring her into Maths, to help me with bloody angle bisections or whatever the Hell Gordon gets and I don’t, or to send her over to sit on Ffion’s lap any time she looks sad.

Poor Lumi. She does get lonely when Mum and I are out of the house all day.

Resolutely, I stare into the mirror, resigning myself to another day at school without Lumi. I slick on a thin layer of watermelon lip-balm. It’s already a bit pinker than I can be sure will fly. Asking Mr Mayes if I can bring a Staffy into class--”Sir, this is my emotional support massive dog. Everyone should have an emotional support massive dog,”--would definitely be pushing my luck.

Oh, well. I can dream.

As I head out of the loos by our form room, I collide with Ffion in the corridor, and we both stammer clumsy apologies for what was undoubtedly my fault.

“Oh, my goodness, I’m so sorry!” I exclaim, “I wasn’t looking where I was going! I rub Ffion’s shoulder, the bony bit that I bashed into just now. “Are you OK?”

Ffion nods vigorously, and hold my shoulders at her arm’s length, so that she can scrutinise me, presumably for dents and such. “I’m fine!” she rushes, “Are you? I’m sorry! I should’ve been looking out! I was looking at my shoes!”

Oh, Ffion… I’ve seen you walking around like that before… and, knowing what I know now, there’s always a reason for it, isn’t there? Head bowed, eyes pink, shoulders curled in…

“Are you OK?” I ask again, keeping my worries down, so that she won’t think I’m pitying her. Because I’m not. I’m fucking impressed by her; she does a Hell of a lot, and deals with a Hell of a lot. There’s nothing to pity there, only a whole heap to respect. And helping hands to offer.

Her eyes shine, and she nods, beaming. “Charlotte, I could barely be happier!” she whispers, pulling me up the corridor by my sleeve.

Once we’re in a niche where we can talk privately, she stops, and squeezes my arm. “Look at these!” she says, pointing to her feet as she points her toes.

She’s wearing black leather brogues, tied with narrow black laces. They’re clean and neat, and I realise with a skipped heartbeat that they’re new.

“Oh, my goodness, they’re beautiful!” I exclaim, because I’d say it anyway, even if I hadn’t seen the ones she was wearing last week. I’d say it to any of my friends who came in wearing shoes as gorgeous as hers. So smart! Very dark academia!

“Arent’ they?!” Ffion agrees, eyes huge. “I can’t believe they’re actually real! New shoes!” Tears start, and she looks down at her feet again, grinning giddily.

“You mean, like, you can’t believe you finally got new shoes?” I ask, then lower my voice. “Are things finally getting better at home? Did your Mum find work or something?”

Ffion shakes her head, and I flinch, regretting my prying, but then I realise her smile isn’t fading. And she’s beaming at me again.

“She’s still looking,” Ffion replies, “And praying, obviously, just like I’m praying.” She touches her fingertips against teh bright silver of her cross pendant, and smilles. “She’ll find something soon, I’m sure of it, any day now. Just… not yet.”

“Where did the shoes come from, then?” I ask, peering at them. I know she called them “new”, but maybe she meant “new” in the sense that they’re new for her, that she got them second-hand. But they look brand new, so... maybe--

“Mum found them on the doorstep this morning!” Ffion says, clapping her hands in delight, “Three pairs of shoes in boxes, two of them wrapped up like Christmas, with labels and pretty paper and everything! The other one, someone had written my name on the lid of the box, in dark pink, all swirly-curly letters--so pretty!”

“Oh, my goodness, how lovely!” I say, putting my hand to the wall behind me, to steady myself. “Who are they from?”

“I don’t know!” Ffion says, wiping her eyes on the sleeve of her blazer, “But… I mean… isn’t it kind of like a miracle, that they just… turned up? My old shoes hae been falling apart for about a year; I was right about to wear through the soles, and they were far too small!! These are about half a size too big, I think, but, oh, my goodness, they’re so incredibly comfortable! I actually cried a bit when I put them on this morning!”

“I don’t know much about miracles,” I admit, “At least, not enough to be sure, but… yeah, if I had to call it something… “miracle” might well be the word I picked. Or… what’s the story about the guy who stopped to help a stranger, just for the sake of it? It’s “The Good Samaritan”, the one they named that helpline after, right?”

Grinning, Ffion nods so vigorously it makes me dizzy to see her. “That’s the one!” she says, “And I know exactly what you mean! I love that story!”

Well, that explains a lot.

“I’m so glad you’ve got new shoes,” I say, grabbing her hand just for a moment, and squeezing it.I let go before anyone an see. We;re supposed to hate each other. A hug would raise two eyebrows, both of them belonging to Chris, and we can’t afford to blow Ffion’s cover.

She knows what I mean, though, and, after a cautious glance over her shoulder, she squeezes my hand back, blinking slowly, like a contented cat.

We barely get another moment to grin at each other before the bell rings for morning registration, and we have to go back to pretending we dislike each other.

At least I don’t have reputation for hating Ffion as much as Gordon supposedly does. I can’t imagine how difficult that would be, on top of having to keep up the ruse that “school is fun, Sir, honest!”

At least he likes school more than he’s meant to like Ffion. That said, it wouldn’t surprise me if we’re in for another episode of “The Angel of the North Show”. I don’t have the greatest faith in Gordon’s sanity at the moment, and I don’t think I’m alone in that.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

As the sunset spreads gold across the rippling surface of the lake, the summer breeze whistles softly through the trees, sending dark reflections of delicately-wrought branches dancing from shore to shore and back again.

Stef leans back in the stern of the smaller rowing dinghy as I pull the oars into the hull, and the boat slows into a drift, a slow spin in the middle of the lake.

“Having a little nap?” I ask him, grinning.

He shuts his eyes, nods, and holdds his arms open for me. “Just as soon as I have my favourite pillow.”

“You have another one?!” I exclaim, feigning offence, “Well, I’d better remedy that, hadn’t I?” I check the oars are secure, and lay down on the picnic rug we’ve put in the bilges, putting my arms around him as he comes to rest his head on my chest.

“Aww, you’re all soft and cuddly,” Stef says, “I wish I could do this all the time! Fuck school sideways!”

“You can’t sleep on my chest all the time,” I point out, “You’ve got GCSEs coming up, and so have I, and eventually, it’s probably going to rain, and--”

“Who said anything about sleeping on your chest?” Stef ssays, looking up and grinning. “I’m perfectly well aware of how great it is.”

“It is pretty great,” I say, “But if I’m your favourite cushion, who else is your cushion?”

“Pillow,” Stefan says, “My favourite pillow. Apparently there’s a difference between pillows and cushions. No idea what it is. I don’t think it’s like a big difference or whatever, like Catholics and Protestants, and I don’t think anyone’s ever gone to war about it--” He settles back onto my chest, and starts stroking my neck. “But it wouldn’t surprise me if there were people who’d get irrationally pissed off about it, you know?”

“I think you might be avoiding the question just a little bit, sweetie,” I say, running my fingers through his hair. “Who’s your other pillow? Have you been hugging Lumi when I’ve not known about it?”

“Certainly not!” he says, as if he’s on trial, “I’ve rested my chin on top of Ffion’s head when I’ve hugged her--about twice--so I’d say she’s kind of my pillow as well. But obviously I’ve never cuddled her like this.”

I laugh. “That sounds exactly like the sort of thing you’d say if you had,” I say, kissing his forehead, “Not that I’d mind. That girl needs a few hugs, I think.”

Stef nods, and squeezes his arms around my waist. “Definitely. She makes me think of a cat, almost, like, a cat that’s been on its own for a while and doesn’t super trust people, maybe scratches a bit, but, like… only because it’s scared. Because she’s obviously terrified, isn’t she?” He tilts his head upwards, looking into my face again. “But she’s lovely.”

“So lovely,” I say, “As soon as she has the chance, she does whatever she can to help other people. I mean, like… fucking Hell. That’s some colossal braver right there. And I don’t know if I’ve ever seen anyone more like a Good Samaritan than Ffion. You know the story?”

“Of course,” he replies.

“Oh. I didn’t know if I had it quite right. I only found out for sure today.”

Stef hugs me. “Let me guess,” he says, “It was Ffion that told you?”

I nod. “Of course.” I pull him close, and grin, eyes fixed on the light clouds drifting pink and orange across the sky. “She knows so much about God and religion and the Bible and everything. It’s amazing, actually! I kind of want to sit her down and get her to teach me everything she knows? But that’d take forever.”

“Aww,” Stef says, “You’ve got a whole summer holiday coming up. Why not ask her to… is it called Bible study? Ask her to take you through some of it then. It’s not like you’ve got any work to do for school, is it? Other than a bit of coursework for your Art, but maybe it’ll give you some inspiration. Iconography, right?”

I mean, I’m fairly sure Dad’s sending me to stay with my cousins in France this summer, but I’m not sure for how long… and, in any case…

...I’m suddenly thinking of Ffion’s portrait in stained glass, of Ffion’s likeness wandering along the walls of a grand cathedral, gold leaf halo glowing behind her head, slim hands clasped in prayer, scarred feet kicking aside drifts of sand, clearing a path across some distant desert. Ffion wandering an olive grove, gathering small, green fruits into her palms, before sitting on a rock and sharing them with a cluster of friends--Gordon and Lena and Sophie and Tim and Scott and Stef and Etta and me--as she tells us all the stories she’s ever been told.

“That’s a lovely grin you’ve got on your face,” Stef says, “Where’s it from?”

I laugh. “Oh, just thinking.”

“Thinking about Ffion?” he says, resting his chin on my collarbones, and grinning at me more cheesily than a cheesemonger.

“Who else?” (Ha!)

“Oh!” Stefan wails, feigning devastation. He rolls off me and curls into the bed, sobbing, “Who else indeed! Who else!”

“To be fair,” I say, snuggling into his back and spooning him, “I don’t need to think about you--I can see you! And I can cuddle you! I don’t need to think about you specially to have you on my mind, do I? You’re right here. With me. And you’re always in my head anyway.”

Stefan says., “Hmph!” and tenses all his muscles, so that it feels like I’m cuddling a tall, grumpy rock. “And you’d like cuddle Ffion as well?” He tucks his chin onto his chest.

“Quite fervently,” I reply, in the affected RP accent of a romantic Regency heroine.

With a giggle, Stefan twists around in my arms, and kisses me on the nose. “Good!” he says, “So do I!”

“Ooh, Stefan’s got a crush on Ffion!” I chant, laughing.

“Charlotte’s got an even bigger crush on Ffion!” he chants back, laughing harder, and then rolling us over so that I’m laying on top of him, resting my head on his chest.

“OK, true,” I say, closing my eyes, “But I also have a crush on you,” and I sing-song the last word, like a nice owl.

“Oh, thank fuck!” Stefan whispers, and then he bursts out laughing, and kisses my forehead. “So do I!”

“Fuck’s sake, mate!” I mutter, burying my face in his chest.

He lifts my chin with his index finger, so that I’m looking into his eyes, and then he starts planting a little orchard of kisses along my hairline. “Mate!” he says, between each one and the next, “Mate, mate, mate, mate--” and then he kisses me right between my eyebrows, “--boyfriend. Stefan.”

I grin. “I love how Ffion calls us Stefan and Charlotte, though,” I mumble, “It’s so cute, so prettily formal, don’t you think?”

“Ah, that’s your inner Jane Austen heroine talking,” Stef says, running the tips of his fingers up and down my back, “Miss Charlotte Anne Moreau of Chase Valley, Northumberland.”

“Charlotte Anna,” I say, “And I like to think I’d be Miss Charlotte Anna Flynn-Moreau, after my Mum.”

“Ah, yes!” Stefan exclaims, nuzzling the tip of my nose with his own. “I like that a lot! And I should be Mister Stephen Whitman-Darcy!”

“Darcy,” I say, “Fine, fine, as long as you don’t try to keep me in the attic.”

“That’s Mr and Mrs Rochester, my love,” Stef says, “And don’t pretend you wouldn’t kill for a loft conversion.”

I giggle, and bend my head to kiss him, and he slips his hands under the hem of my shirt and up the bare skin of my back.

Softly, I gasp against his lips, and kiss him again, quickly, before a moan can escape.

But then we both hear it, clear and sudden through the gentle splashing of the lake against the outside of the dinghy’s hull.

Shouting. An argument, and not one like Stef and I have just had, full of gentle teasing and terms of endearment disguised as sniping and insults, and all sprinkled with kisses and caresses.

This is a proper argument.

And our laughter dies like it’s been shot, point-blank.

I press a finger to my lips, and lift my head just enough to see over the bow.

On the bridge stand two figures, the setting sun lighting them from behind, tendrils flickering with the short, sharp movement of their heated conversation. The golden light glints flame-red through curly hair, turning it into a bright haze of red-hot copper, and for a moment, I think it’s Etta.

But when I strain my ears, I catch the faintest wisps of an actual Scottish accent, one of the few you can hear in Chase Valley. Most of the time, it’s Northumbrian English, and it sounds similar to some people, I guess, but it’s not actually Scottish.

This is.

Curly hair, and a Glaswegian voice. That’s Angie. But who’s yelling at her?

Putting my finger on my lips again--insistently, persistently, this time, to make it very clear that Stef is to be very quiet--I shift, so that I can kneel on the keel, and not on him, and start to scull us through the water.

It’s slow, and it’s cumbersome, and our progress across the lake is painfully inefficient, but sculling--paddling the boat with cupped hands--is much quieter than rowing with oars would be.

And we can’t afford to make any noise as we slide, unnoticed, unseen, unheard, under the bridge. It’s too light, too early in the evening for this kind of sneaking around. Espionage i only at home in the middle of the night, when it’ so dark, you have to navigate by the stars, and so quiet that you can only hear the owls, and the wind through the leaves on the trees.

It’s barely gone eight. That’s practically lunchtime.

On our approach to the bridge, Stefan and I both have to stifle a gasp as we realise that it’s Paul arguing with Angie.

My stomach churns as Ibrace myself for all the horrible things he could be saying to her. Paul’s not exactly the most forward-thinking person, and, well… Angie and Etta’s Mum is Black, and their Dad’s white. God alone knows what Paul thinks.

well, God, ad Angie, and Stefan and I,reaching out to touch the slimy walls of the bridge’s arch, slowing the dinghy to a halt in the shadows.

I grimace, and pick moss out from under my fingernails as Stef looks up, at the spot where the voices are coming from.

“I just don’t see why we can’t tell our parents,” Angie says, “Anyone else would! Everyone else does!”

“But we’re not “everyone else,”” Paul replies, “We’ve got something special,me and you. We’ve got confidence. Pride. We don’t need to go splashing our relationship all over the High Street.”

“I’m not saying we should splash it all over the High Street!” Angie replies, “I’m just saying it might be nice to tell our parents that we’re together! Because I want to tell mine, even if you don’t want to tell yours.”

“Ugh,” mutters Paul, “I don’t see why they have to know. Why’ve you gotta make a big thing of it?”

Stef and I exchange sickened expressions, chewing our lips and squinting. So Angie and Paul are in a relationship? When was I going to find out about this? (Never. Obviously never. But still. If I were an owl, I’d be puffling up my feathers, and scowling. I’m scowling as it iss.)

I turn my eyes back upwards, and narrow them at the damp marks on the beige stone.

“Because it’s a relationship, Paul!” says Angie, and her voice sounds so small and fragile that I want to clamber up onto the roadway and wrap my arms around her. She says again, “It’s our relationship, and it’s special to me. Isn’t it special to you?”

Paul sighs. “Of course it’s special to me, babe,” he says, “Come here, let me hold you. Come here.” There’s a pause. “That’s better.” “That’s why I think we should keep it a secret. So that it’s special, just for us. Don’t you think so? And isn’t it more romantic, if we’re keeping things on the downlow? Isn’t it sexier if we’re sneaking around?” He’s lowering his voice with every sentence.

I frown, and look at Stef. He’s not small. I don’t think I could have him hug me--if that’s what Angie and Paul are doing, hugging--in public without anyone noticing. I’m wondering how Paul intends to keep it a secret, and how long he expects it to last, going about like that.

“I don’t know if I’m ready for sexy stuff,” Angie says quietly, “And I don’t like having to hide things. I don’t like having to… feel like I’m lying. It’s not nice. It makes me feel like I’m doing something… something wrong. I don’t want to keep us a secret from Mum and Dad, Paul, let alone Etta. Please. Can’t I tell them?”

“What did I literally just say?” snaps Paul, “It’s nobody’s business but ours.”

And now Stef’s the one looking at me. He grabs my hand, and squeezes it tightly. “Are you OK?” he mouths, slight reflections of light bouncing off the lake surface dancing on his skin.

I nod. “Fine,” I sign. Then I look up again. “But I’m still not happy about that,” I add, whispering along as quietly as I can without being totally inaudible to Stefan I only need to be inaudible to the kids on the bridge.

"If it's nobody's business but ours," demands Angie, "Then why are you always trying to make out with me at break and lunch at school? Because, other people's business or not, I think any idiot could work out we're together if they see you trying to stick your tongue down my throat, don't you? And I'd rather not have my sister find out that way! We tell each other everything. Except this, apparently."

Stefan stares at me, and I know he's thinking exactly what I'm thinking: "Why the Hell is Angie keeping secrets from Etta?" Because she's not the one making that decision. Because she would tell her if she could, because she wants to, but Paul's getting in the way.

I don't want Angie to go through a breakup, but I don't think I want her to stay in a relationship with Paul either. Especially not if this is the way its going to be. I want to shudder, but I force myself to keep still. Can’t be rocking the boat--literally or figuratively--right now.

“That’s exactly what I mean, though!” exclaims Paul, “That’s exactly what I mean! If you share everything with your sister except this, doesn’t that mark it out as something special? Something unique?”

There’s a quiet moment, maybe twenty seconds of near-silence, just the sound of the lake rippling against the boat’s lull and the bridge’s arch.

“I don’t like being made to feel like a dirty little secret,” Angie says, “And I don’t like having to lie to my parents while you treat me like a piece of meat at school. I hate it, Paul! It makes me hate myself, and what’s it been? A week?”

“Two and a half weeks,” snaps Paul, “We’ve been together for two and a half weeks.”

“Two and a half weeks, then!” Angie says, her voice stumbling and crumbling. (Oh, God, I think she’s crying.) “Two and a half weeks, that have made me hate myself, Paul! I feel like a liar, I feel like a secret, and I feel like a shame!”

“You’re ashamed of me?!” Paul demands.

“No, that’s not what I said!” Angie protests, “You’re twisting my words, you’re not listening--”

There’s a sharp sound, a crack that splits the air. I think of an axe going through pine, turning a log into firewood. A crack that reverberates through my skull, makes me flinch. I think of the palm of a hand scalding my cheek with a slap.

And I know what’s happened.

“I wanted a nice date,” Paul says coldly, “And look what you’ve done.”

“Paul, I’m sorry, I didn’t mean--”

“I don’t want to hear it. I’m going home.”

Footsteps stride away over the bridge, fading into the distance on the High Street.

Stef reaches for my hands, but then seems to change his mind, and pulls me into a tight hug, instead, bending down to bury his face in my neck.

His breaths are shaky and over-hot, and damp, and I realise that he’s crying.

I shush him softly, and stroke his back, holding him tightly in my arms. “It’s OK,” I say, knowing as well as I’m sure he does that it’s not true, “It’s OK.”

But I’m not talking about what just happened on the bridge, and I hope he knows that. I need him to know that… because if he thinks I’m lying about what I am referring to… he’ll think it’s still happening.

My stomach twists, and I pull him closer, and then suddenly his arms are slipping free from my waist, grabbing at my thighs, and hauling them up over his hips, so that I’m straddling his lap. He clings to me, and rocks back and forth, hands returning to my back as his fingers explore the fabric of my T-shirt, scrambling for a grounding wrinkle or lint-bobble or stray thread or anything that will remind him… that it’s not happening anymore.

“It’s July 2014,” I say softly, “It’s a lovely sunset over the lake, and we’re under Chase Valley bridge, hanging out in the dinghy. We’re fifteen, nearly sixteen, and we’ve got the summer holidays coming up, yeah? It’s OK. You’re safe. It’s OK.”

Squeezing my eyes shut, I realise that I’m fighting the urge to clench my fists, thinking about what he saw. He was so young, so tiny--well, not tiny, because he’s never been tiny, but small--and… fuck. I’m so glad his Mum packed up and got them out of there after that. And I’m glad she found Stef’s stepdad, ‘cause that man is lovely.

“Char?” he whispers, squeezing my waist, “Char?”

“I’m here, sweetie,” I say, stroking his hair, “I’m here, it’s OK. You’re safe. I’ve got you.”

He nods. And then, after a moment, he says, “Can we go and check on Angie?”

“I’ll go and check on her, sure,” I say, “But… are you sure you want to? Would it make you feel better?”

Stef takes a deep breath, and then he nods again. But then he shakes his head. “I don’t know,” he mumbles, wiping his eyes on his wrists. “What if it upsets her to see me like this?”

I kiss him on the cheek. “How about I go and check on her, and you take a little minute to yourself, and then see how you are, yeah? Will you be OK on your own, darling?” I wipe my thumb over his cheekbones, to dry his tears.

He nods. “I think so.”

“Shout for me if you’re not,” I whisper, kissing him again--on the lips, this time--before gently prising myself off his lap, and taking up the oars.

But by the time the boat’s slid round to the shore by the path to the bridge, Angie’s gone, and, even when I squint all the way up the High Street, she’s nowhere to be seen.

Stef’s shivering, so I wrap my arms around him, and ask if he wants to come back to my house for some hot chocolate and biscuits.

He nods. “I think that would be nice,” he mumbles, resting his head on top of mine.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Once we’ve settled onto my bed with two mugs and a plate of custard creams between us, I take my phone from my bedside table--where I left it before our date--and text Angie.

It’s a very nonchalant, “How’s your day going?” and I wish I could ask something more specific, but I know it’d upset her to know that Stef and I heard everything.

And if she doesn't want to talk about it, she doesn't have to respond.

Stef catches me chewing my lip as I put my phone back on my bedside table, and he wraps his arms around my waist, hugging me to him. "She'll be OK," he says, but the tremolo in his voice makes me think he's saying it in the hopes he'll believe it himself, not that he's sure already. It's certainly not a reassuring tone.

"Do you think we should tell Etta?" I ask, shuffling back on the bed so that I can lean on him. I hold his hands where they're resting in my tummy, and stroke my thumbs over the backs of them.

"I don't know," he admits, "I think… I think it might make things worse. Paul obviously doesn't want Angie's family to know he's with Angie, so if Etta suddenly knows all about it…" He trails off.

But I draw the conclusion he's indicating. "He'll think it was Angie that told her." I take off my glasses and rub my eyes with the heels of my hands, sighing so heavily that my chest aches. "What do we do, then? Just... leave her to him? To that… situation?" Now I shudder that shudder I wanted in the dinghy, and my stomach gurgles. “What do we say to her when she finds out that we knew?”

Stef grinds his teeth. “That’s the question, isn’t it?” he mumbles, burying his forehead in my shoulder, “‘Cause if we leave it too long, then we’ll give Angie more problems being stuck for longer than she needs to be… and if we go in too soon… we’ll make things worse for her even more quickly.”

I nod, and reach up to stroke his hair. It’s soft and fluffy, ot so different to Gordodn’s except that he’s not trying to bite my hand for messing it up. “You’re right,” I say, “But… how long can we leave it before we have to intervene? Before we tell Etta what’s going on?”

He nods. “It’s a difficult one. I think...” He sighs, and rubs the heel of his hand through his hair with a deep sigh. “I think Angie will be all right. She’s not the type to...” He sighs. “I don’t think she’s the type to think it’s normal, for Paul to treat her like that. I know how that sounds… I know, and I’m not trying to place the blame on people who get abused, but… it’s like abusers go for a certain type of person, the kind of person who’ll believe them when they say their victim deserves it. Or that it’s OK. And you heard Angie arguing with him. I think she’s… I think she’s strong enough to realise she deserves better. And I think she’s fierce enough that she won’t put up with less than that. You heard her arguing back, standing up for herself. I think she’ll tell him what’s what soon enough.” He pauses, hugs me again, and kisses the top of my head. “Can we give it a week? Just in case she manages to get out of it on her own before then, ‘cause… honestly? When I heard her talking back to Paul, she sounded a lot like my Mum did, just before she got us away from there… She mentioned a couple of incidents to a couple of her friends, and they convinced her that she had to get us out. And once she’d taken that message in, it was only a matter of time. She was looking for a way out, and, since she’d already decided to leave him, she started arguing back. And when he hit her that last time, it was the final straw, you know?”

“And you think Angie’s close to that now?” I say, resting my head onhis shoulder.

“I don’t think she’s far away from it,” Stef replies, stroking my hair and twirling a lock of it around her finger. “She’ll get through it. She’ll come out the other side. And we can wait for her, ready to give her hugs and bourbon biscuits and tea and blankets and hugs and--”

“Ah, you already said hugs, my love,” I mumble, twisting around to nuzzle the tip of my nose against his.

He grins, and darts softly forward to kiss me. “That’s exactly what I was going for, sweetie,” he says, kissing me again, and then again, and then again. “Angie might need quite a lot of hugs once she’s away from Paul. And she might need hugs in the meantime, too.”

I nod, and kiss him again, his lips pressing softly and gently and carefully against mine, as carefully as if he were picking up an injured butterfly.

This isn't the most comfortable position to kiss in, so I pull away after a moment, and lie back on the bed, my head on the pillows. I hold my arms out to him, like I did in the dinghy, and wrap him up as he snuggles against me, parting my legs with his knee, and laying down between them.

The tip of his nose brushes mine, and I gaze at his lips through my eyelashes, studying the slight chapped lines, and the reddish marks where he's bitten them. And then he covers my mouth with a kiss, running his tongue along my bottom lip, and stroking the side of my waist until I gasp from the feeling of it, and open my mouth to him, sucking on his lips as my eyes flutter closed and I press my hips against his.

Oh, God, Stef… touch me, please, touch me… your fingers… oh, God…

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

"Ffion, Ffion, Ffion, Ffion, Ffion!" exclaims Stef, dancing up to her—pulling me behind him, our hands intertwined—with a big, cheesy grin on his beautiful face. He taps her on the shoulder, and she turns around, beaming at him, and then at me.

"Hey, guys!" she says, eyes darting around the corridor as she closes her locker. "What's up?"

"We wanted to ask you if you'd come swimming with us," I say, leaning on the lockers, "After school sometime, maybe?"

"At the lake?" Ffion says, chewing her lip, "Don't you think someone might see? It's one thing, chatting in the corridor—Gordon made a show of giving me a book he said I'd lent him, so he'd have a reason to ask after me—but I don't think we could explain away a swim together as a bit of, like, simple civility. Much as I'd love to."

"Ah, shit, you're right," Stef says, "Fuck. Didn't think of that. Um… What if we all hung out at mine? You know where my house is, right, Ffion? Movie night?"

Ffion beams. "Oh, my goodness, yes, that would be lovely! Thank you so much!" And then her smile drops away, and she lowers her voice, as if she's seen someone she doesn't trust coming up the corridor. "I'll talk to you about it later—" The hell for morning registration interrupts her, and she waits for it to stop before adding, "At the GSA, yeah?"

"Of course," I say, touching her arm just lightly for a moment, "Stay safe until then, won't you?"

Ffion nods. "You, too."

Last time Ffion and I were friends, we'd have said that as a joke—"Stay safe in the lessons where we don't get to sit together! I promise I'll cry loudly and beautifully until we get to see each other again… in an hour and a half!"—but now it's anything but a joke, and it's anything but funny. I don't know if "chilling" is the word for it. But it's true, and it's uncomfortable, and it's pertinent, our willing each other to stay safe… and all three of us know it.

Thankfully, it's not long before lunch rolls around, and we can all pile in for the first meeting—the first ever meeting—of our school's brand new GSA.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Much as I might have expected Gordon at least to crash into the classroom with a hop and a skip and a jump and a whoop, he doesn't. He seems oddly subdued, nervous, even, as though he were walking into a job interview. But he's smiling, and that's good enough for me; I've seen him crying all too many times recently.

Change for the better is nice, isn't it?

Ffion, Stef and I are already in the classroom when Soph, Scott, Gordon and Lena come in. It's safe enough, I reckon.

Kind of the main point of a GSA is that what happens in the meeting stays in the meeting. Nobody will say anything—least of all to Chris—about the three of us sitting together like friends, chatting like friends, laughing like friends, being friends. There aren't many places at school where we can be sure of that.

"So, do you guys want to come over to mine tomorrow, then?" asks Stef, grinning at me and Ffion, "I can get my mum to pick us up from the library in Wooler, so that nobody from school will see us going off together."

Ffion laughs. "And what am I going to do on the ride back to Chase Valley, ride in the boot? Wear a paper bag over my head? Someone will see!"

"And hide your beautiful face?!" I exclaim, giving her a loving little shove in the shoulder with the palm of my hand. My heart flutters as she giggles. "Heck, no!" I say, "I think that would be a crime! No, no, Stef's Mum's car has tinted windows in the back. Nobody's gonna see in."

Ffion turns bright pink. "You think I'm beautiful?" she whispers, a smile warming her lips.

Stef and I nod at the same time, and then catch each other's eyes, and grab each other's hands over the table. And then we look at her.

"Of course you're beautiful, Ffion," Stef says, "And we're not just saying that, now, are we, Char? We sat and talked about you for ages last night, about how kind and sweet and pretty you are. Char especially had a lot to say!" He winks at me.

I almost want to glare at him for telling her all this, but when I see shiny tears fill her eyes, when she covers her blushes with her hands, my chest starts feeling like it's about to burst, and, oh, gosh at least she knows without me having to tell her, because I would definitely make a clot of myself.

Why is telling a girl I like her so much more dizzying a thought than telling a guy I like him? Telling Stef I had a thing for him was easy. Telling him I like Ffion was also easy.

But the idea of telling Ffion I like her?

Blood rises in my cheeks, the heat of it… I'm turning scarlet, aren't I? (Oh, God, they'll call me Scarlet Charlotte. (Or Gordon will. (Until I have to kill him. (Which I definitely will.))))

Scary, scary, scary! So scary that I’d have gone as the concept for Hallowe’en, if Stef hadn’t jumped in there first.

That said, I don’t know if Ffion really gets it, but… honestly? The look on her face is so sweet that I don’t mind; she’s got the biggest smile I’ve ever seen, such a long way from the tearstained cheeks and red eyes I saw when Stef and I took Lumi to the boathouse to meet her.

“You really mean it?” she squeaks, eyes sparkling.

“Sweetie, oh, my goodness, who wouldn’t mean it?” I say, “Tell me, and I’ll go and kick them for you, right in the fucking kneecaps!”

“No, no, no,” Ffion flusters, laying her hands protectively over mine and Stef’s, “You mustn’t do that! There’s nobody who’s… said that and been kidding, that’s all.”

“I should bloody well hope not!” Stefan mutters.

Ffion shakes her head. “No, I mean… nobody’s ever said that to me before, joking or not. So… do you really mean it?”

I grab her hands. “Of course we do.”

“Thank you,” Ffion whispers, You have no idea how much that means to me.“ She miles, and squeezes my hands. “And for the record… I think you’re really beautiful, too.”

“Oh, my goodness!” I whisper back, grinning.

“It’s OK,” Stef says, putting on a watery voice, “I’m fine. I don’t need anyone to tell me I’m beautiful!” He sniffs loudly s if he’s crying, and gazes wistfully at the far wall of the classroom. “It’s fine.”

I laugh, and pull my hands free so that I can ruffle them through his hair, saying, “Well, that much is true. You already know you’re beautiful; you have the self-esteem of a parakeet.”

“Hecking right,” says Stefan, squeezing Ffion’s hands as he kisses me on the cheek, “Now get your fingers out of my pompadour, you cheeky, cheeky knave.”

“Status!” crows Gordon, “Status! Stay-tuss!” He swoops at us with his hands thrust into his blazer pockets, and his arms held out so that the ugly polyester looks like wings.

Ah, there’s the Gordon we all know and (grudgingly) love.

“Status!” Ffion and I say simultaneously, before Stef can say, “Safety,” and spare himself the public embarrassment of setting, “Get your fingers out of my pompadour, you cheeky, cheeky knave, as his Facebook status.

Gordon cackles as Stef pulls out his phone, unlocks it, and types it in.

If he hadn’t, I would have done. I love playing “Status”, especially when it’s quotes from other people getting ripped out of context and plastered all over the internet for everyone to laugh at.

Not that context always makes things better.

“All right, everyone!” Mrs Paulson says as she sweeps in through the door of Room Eleven. “Oh, it’s nice to see so many of you here!” Her speech is stilted, and slow, hampered by her attempts to sign--in Makaton, unfortunately, which doesn’t help Etta at all--and although Mrs Paulson’s smiling, she doesn’t look all that happy. Her eyes are flicking around all over the place, looking for help. Looking for Angie, I guess, or Gordon.

Or me.

I put my hand up. “Mrs Paulson, may I interpret?”

She nods, eyes big with relief, and ushers me to the front.

Smiling at Ffion and Stef, I walk up to the whiteboard, look at Etta, and position myself so that she can see me clearly from her seat next to Angie’s and Tim’s.

As Mrs Paulson carries on, I put her words into BSL. “Welcome to Wooler Water’s very first GSA meeting! It’s great to see so many of you so invested in making Wooler Water Comp a better, safer place for students of all genders and sexualities, and to see so many of you coming together today to express that, to express your support for the LGBT Community, and for the diversity that makes our school such a lovely place to be.”

Gordon glances at the ceiling and mouths something, but I can’t decipher his lip pattern, and Mrs Paulson doesn’t seem to notice him at all. So I shoot him a quick glare, and carry on with the interpretation.

Got to keep a neutral face where possible.

Even though it’s really difficult to keep my eyes on Etta, and not keep glancing over at Angie.

She usually wears her big brown curls back in a puff ponytail, or in two bunches--and it always looks cute as Hell, does Angie’s hair--but today it’s loose around her shoulders, a tuft of it hanging soft over the left side of her face.

And she’s wearing a lot of makeup, a lot of makeup for Angie, that is. She’s in Year Nine, and isn’t strictly-speaking allowed to wear it at all, but I remember breaking that rule last year, when I was her age, and I know she tends to wear a bit of mascara and a slightly tinted lip-balm, because she’s been shopping for makeup with me and Etta a couple of times, now.

I know what she wears.

A layer of foundation thick enough to obscure her freckles, and pressed powder that’s so pale it makes her gorgeous face look ashy and drawn… That’s not what she wears.

It’s not Angie.

But she’s not crying. Right now. She’s in a GSA meeting, with her sister, with lovely Etta, who needs me to interpret what Mrs Paulson’s saying.

And I’d be doing both of them a massive disservice if I let myself forget that.

“Something I’d quite like to do is to advertise this group in school assemblies,” Mrs Paulson says, “Please remember that this group is a private one, and we do uphold confidentiality, but, if you’re comfortable doing so, it would be very helpful if some of you would stand up and tell your classmates about this GSA, so that we can get as many people involved as possible.”

Russell Bird raises his hand. “Please may I volunteer for that, Mrs P?” he asks, smiling and straightening his tie as he sits up in his chair.

It’s not a school tie, navy blue with a diagonal red stripe just below the knot, but a yellow one, made of something that certainly looks like silk. And instead of his school shirt and blazer, he’s wearing a smart white dress shirt and a grey waistcoat.

For a moment I wonder why I haven’t picked up on his sharp dressing before--occasionally we still see Year Elevens around school, even those who’ve finished their exams already, because they get to feel cool, striding around in non-uniform--and then I realise where I’ve seen that outfit before.

There’s a gentleman’s outfitters in Wooler High Street, where Dad sometimes gets cufflinks or ties, and occasionally even shoes. Russell’s wearing the uniform the shop assistants wear. He’s got a job, which, thinking about it, would explain the neat and tidy hair he’s coiffed up above his forehead. Good for him.

“If you can fit it in around your work commitments,” says Mrs Paulson, “Then certainly! Thank you!”

Russell grins, and thrusts his chin forward proudly. “Thanks, Miss,” he says. And then he pauses. “I’ve just realised I’m not going to be here for much longer. I’ll be off to Alnwick in September, for Sixth Form.”

Everyone blows raspberries, except for those who boo. (And me. Of course I don’t. That would be naughty.)

“Well, you’re certainly as welcome as anyone else until then,” Mrs Paulson says, “And if you ever find yourself with a free afternoon in September, you’ll be very welcome to come back for visits, too! Just let us know.” She beams at him, and then turns her beam on the rest of us. “Now, then, is there anyone else who’d like to volunteer for the assemblies?”

Gordon and Lena raise their hands, and then so does Tim, and so does Scott, and Sophie, and Stef and I, and Etta, and Angie… until only a handful of people still have their hands down.

Ffion, of course, stays schtum, but that makes perfect sense. For the spying plan to work, Chris has to think she’s a committed homophobe. And committed homophobes don’t get up in front of the whole school and say how much they loves the gays.

Doesn’t happen.

But at least Ffion isn’t on her own. I can see a couple of Year Seven kids staring into their own laps, twiddling their thumbs on the tabletops, or biting their nails. They’re here as Allies, apparently, but I’m ot so sure it’s that simple.

Poor little kiddies. Here’s hoping the GSA makes up for the damage Chris has done to their sense of safety. Even if the group’s existence isn’t common knowledge, what Chris did is, at least in rumour.

And if I were twelve, and just working out who I was, and someone a good foot taller than I was had done that to someone who’d been his friend until recently… I’m not so sure I’d be thrilled about coming out, either.

I want to give them all hugs, but I think that would be out of line with my duties as a ‘terp’. I’ll leave it to Gordon and Lena to adopt all the tiny ones. (Not that Gordon’s especially giant, himself. (Tee, hee. (Hee.)))

Mrs Paulson continues, “That’s wonderful! Now, so that everyone who sees the assembly can be sure of who to ask about the GSA, I think it would be a nice idea to have some kind of committee, or leadership team. Someone to minute the meetings, someone to head any discussions we have, and someone to step in on days when that person isn’t here.” She smiles. “We need a Chair, a Vice Chair, and a Secretary. Who’d like to volunteer for… Chair?”

Gordon raises his hand, but then lowers it immediately when Russell does the same. And, when nobody else volunteers, Gordon nods at Russell. “You have it, mate,” he says, “You’re the oldest one here.”

Russell clicks his tongue against his teeth. “Thanks, Gordon,” he says, grinning.

“Lovely!” Mrs Paulson says, “And are there any volunteers for Vice Chair? Show of hands?”

Again, Gordon’s hand is the first one up… and, this time, it’s also the only one up. “Please may I, Miss?”

Mrs Paulson glances quickly around the classroom, to make sure nobody else wants the post, and then nods to him. “Lovely!” she says again, “Russell to Chair, Gordon to Vice Chair, and… we still need a secretary.”

Lena waves to her, as does her brother, as well as Gordon’s sister, and a handful of younger students.

Mrs Paulson gets a deck of playing cards out of her pocket, and fans them out, face-down, getting each of the would-be secretaries to pick one. “Now, then, ace high, spades are highest, then diamonds, clubs and hearts. Who has the highest number? Turn your cards over… now!”

Lena, newest Knave (and Jammy Bastard, apparently) of the Valley, has the Ace of Spades, which is just as well, because she also has ace handwriting.

“Ooooh!” sweeps around the classroom, and Lena bows her head, smiling softly.

“We have our Committee!” Mrs Paulson says, “And we’ll elect a new one when we come back to school after the summer holidays.” She pinches her brow. “Oh, gosh, that’ll be the second of September… Heaven, help us...”

Tim crosses himself, and Sophie swats him on the arm.

“Anyway!” Mrs Paulson says, popping into the store cupboard in the corner of the room, and, a moment later, pulling a big piece of pale lilac card, something like A0-sized, “I think one of the best things about a GSA is the opportunity to help people! To educate people! To foster a sense of community, and to bring people together, and to share information that might not otherwise be shared!” She heaves the mammoth card onto the largest table--four desks pushed together along their long edges--and mimes dusting off her hands. “There we go! So I thought it might be nice if we all collaborated on a poster full of resources for LGBT people, so that it can go up in the corridor, and anyone walking past can take note of whatever they might need, without having to psych themselves up to asking someone in person!”

“You mean like helplines, Miss?” Russell asks, craning his neck to look at the paper.

In the middle of it, Mrs Paulson’s already drawn a rainbow in felt-tip pens, very neatly and evenly, too. It’s pretty much perfectly symmetrical. and very satisfying to look at it. It’s certainly difficult to keep my mind on interpreting, instead of staring at it.

“Exactly, so, Russell,” Mrs Paulson replies, nodding, “Helplines, and websites, and book recommendations, and any community events or meetings you might know about.”

Etta signs, “Clinic,” at me, and I nod.

“Do you want me to suggest that?” I ask her.

She nods. “If I didn’t know about it, how can we be sure everyone else will?”

I wink at her, and blow her a little kiss, which isn’t strictly-speaking professional, but I’m not a professional ‘terp’ just yet. I can be a bit silly with my pal. “Smashing idea,” I sign.

Mrs Paulson opens a big box of felt-tips, and gestures for everyone to start writing.

I see Ffion bending down to write the URL for HopeRemains, and Gordon jots down the Rainbow Room. Etta beats me to writing “Sexual Health Clinic @WWC”, so I write down “Scarleteen.com”.

Mrs P looks over my shoulder as I uncap the pen, and reads as I write. “Ah, yes, Charlotte, what an excellent contribution!”

Looking up at her, I grin. “Ta, Miss. Yeah, I love Scarleteen. It’s so useful! Like… I mean, no offence meant, Miss, but there’s not a lot about the sex education we get in school that’s really relevant. It’s all pictures of gonorrhoea-of-the-eye and syphilis-of-the-nostril and so forth, just a bunch of slideshows with photos to scare us out of getting STIs without any actual guidance on how to avoid them.”

She nods. “I know. It’s a great shame.”

“Yes!” I reply, “And Scarleteen might literally have saved my life! I don’t actually know, of course, but I’m glad I don’t have to find out!”

“I’m glad you’ve found resources to help you,” she says.

“Oh, I have,” I reply, turning most of my attention back to the poster, to jot down a short explanation of what Scarleteen does, “And it’s so inclusive, too. Everyone’s treated equally, which is really nice, especially for me, because, for me, it really is all equal.” I smile at the paper, and put the lid back on the pen. “I’m bisexual,” I tell her, “And Scarleteen’s taught me a lot about how to be healthy and happy as a bisexual woman. It’s brilliant!”

Mrs Paulson beams, and nods vigorously. “Yes, it is!” she says, “I just wish we could recommend it in Sex Education classes! But Mr Peters doesn’t like teachers to lean on recommending students to the internet all the time. He prefers PowerPoints and books. In some ways that’s good… In other ways, it’s not the best… People miss out on a lot of stuff if they restrict themselves to just one path in life.”

Chapter 28: Revelation: Etta
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Intimate Partner Violence.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.
*Note: The discussion of intimate partner violence in this chapter leads to things being OK for the character subjected to it. Ultimately it is a positive discussion.

Chapter Text
Angie comes to our form room after the final bell. She arrives so soon—such a tiny matter of seconds—that I think she must have run from her own—Year Nine—classroom to ours, and waited outside the door, to catch hold of my sleeve as Char and I come out at the end of the school day.

"Need to talk to you," she signs, "It's important. Will you be free to chat at home?"

I glance at Char, remembering she mentioned something about popping up to Kirk Yetholm for a spot of tea with both of us—Angie, too—and I try to make my eyes ask if she's mind postponing.

Angie and Char get on well, but… Angie's eyes are open too wide for me to kid myself that everything's fine.

But Char seems to read my mind, and, with a nod, she signs, "We can go for a spot of tea some other time."

And if I weren't so surprised at her sudden clairvoyance, I might be more startled by her stepping aside—and giving up an evening of tea—for me and Angie to have a conversation, however important.

It's strange, though, that she's so sure a conversation between me and Angie is gonna take that long. It's not that we can't chat for hours on any given topic, but… we don't tend to spend all those hours talking about private things, let alone a whole evening.

"Thanks," Angie signs, smiling at charm

"Am I still OK to walk home with you two?" Char asks.

"Of course, of course," Angie replies, interrupting her with a light touch on the arm. "It's not the sort of thing you, like, need to know. And it's not the sort of thing I'll be able to explain if so want to concentrate on where I'm walking. Roots and so forth."

Char and Angie and I all laugh. It's not going to be forgotten easily, that day Angie was trying to explain a long, overly complicated book to the two of us, only to get to the most exciting bit of the climax, and crash into a lamppost.

Bad sister though it makes me, I laughed then as well, once I'd checked Angie over for concussion.

Needless to say, even though I'm going to say it, because I'm basically just Gordon with better hair and fashion sense, we don't have deep meaningful conversations which were walking anymore.

So it waits until we get home.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Angie sits down on the top bunk—hers, of the two we've always shared—and pats the space by the ladder, indicating that I should come up and sit with her.

Her brown eyes—always larger than mine—seem even larger than usual, and, as I take my place in front of her, I realise she's lined them in sable coloured kohl, and layered on several coats of brunette mascara, which strikes me as odd.

Angie hardly ever goes for a full face of makeup, especially not for school.

Maybe she was even wearing lipgloss or lipstick earlier. I'm not sure. Her lips are tagged and chapped, with a little patch bright red showing where she's obviously been chewing the skin. Biting the skin. There's an anguish to the red that demands to be described as bitten or gnawed or savaged, not chewed or nibbled or picked-at.

Her hands tremble, as she lifts them to sign, "I've got something to tell you. And you're not to tell anyone I told you, but—"

My stomach crashes into the mattress beneath me, and I'm struck with the horror than Angie doesn't realise how much danger my friends—and I, and, oh, God, maybe even she as well—are in. "If it's Lena's girlfriend, I don't want to know. The fewer people know who she is, the better."

Angie frowns. She pauses, and then her eyebrows twitch up. "What?" And then she nods, realising I've got the wrong end of the stick. "Oh, I see what you're thinking. No, I don't know who Lena's girlfriend is; this isn't about Lena. It's… um… about me."

"You have a girlfriend?!" I sign, breaking into a smile as I lean forward to hug her, voicing, "That's amazing!" All the background falls away for a moment, and I don't think about how dangerous this situation is, I just hug my little sister.

But she pushes me away, shaking her head. "No, um… no. I'm not gay. Um…" she tucks a stray curl behind her ear, and then reconsiders, brushing it back into place with hasty fingers. "I've actually got a boyfriend," she signs, "We've been together for about two weeks, now. Nearly."

My smile stays on. "Aw, nice! Who is it?"

Angie's teeth snag against her lower lip—as they must have been doing all day—and I find myself really sad to have been right.

Just what the Hell is she about to tell me? Just whom the Hell is she seeing? Chris?! I don't want it to be Chris—I don't even want to imagine it could be—but who else can it be, for her to be this nervous about telling me? We tell each other everything!

"You're not…" I cast my eyes to her tummy, and then back to her face, really hoping she understands what I mean… and that I'm wrong this time. I can't bring myself to sign "pregnant". Angie's my baby sister, for goodness' sake, and she's not even fourteen until later this month. Even the thought of it makes me feel sick.

She looks reassuringly horrified. "Pregnant?!" she signs, eyebrows rocketing up her forehead. "Of course I'm not pregnant! What the fuck, Etta?!"

"No, no, I'm not thinking you're— I wasn't thinking you would be!" I reply hastily, mentally kicking myself for actually asking.

Of course she's not pregnant. She said she and her boyfriend have only been together, what? Two weeks? I push away the thought that two weeks in is too early to know, and then frown. "So what's worrying you?"

"Who said anything about me being worried?" Angie signs, apparently not remembering that only worried people say things like that. She doesn't make eye contact as she says it, just stares at the corkboard on the far wall.

Oh, well, obviously she's not worried at all, then! (Oh, yeah, and it turns out I'm leaking sarcasm today. Who noticed?) I reach for Angie's hand, and then I voice, "I can see there's something wrong. You're not acting normally. So tell me. What's up? Is he… is he seeing someone else? Is he older, or… someone with a bit of a rep?" I pause. "Who is it?"

Angie lowers her eyes, looks at her hands, and, as soon as I'm looking, too, fingerspells, "Paul Benn."

“You’re fucking kidding me.”

She frowns. “No, I’m… I’m not. I’m seeing Paul Benn.”

I put my head in my hands. “Did you forget the part where he’s an arsehole? The part where he’s such a dickhead that even his own cousin can’t stand to be around him? Or are we talking about a different Paul Benn, who’s suddenly moved to--”

“Oh, don’t be like that!” Angie retorts, “You know which Paul Benn I’m talking about!”

I nod. “I know,” I sign, “That’s exactly why I’m worried. Angie, do you know how many times he’s been suspended this year? This term? How many times he’s been grounded? Caught trying to nick stuff from the corner shop? Been in fights? He’s got a reputation for a good reason, Angie. Please don’t tie yourself to him. It won’t end well. Unless you’re the one to end it.”

She scowls. “I’d have hoped you’d at least be happy for me,” she says, “But now I guess I can see why Paul didn’t want you to know.”

“And you didn’t think that might be a warning sign?”

Angie rolls her eyes. “Don’t be so bloody silly. He said everyone would judge us if they knew we were together, and that it would be better if we kept it quiet. And I didn’t listen, and I told you, and now you’re doing exactly what he said everyone would do: judging us.”

I wrap my arms around my waist and squeeze them tight for a moment, thinking about how I can phrase this without coming off like some kind of… well… judgementalist. But I know that's exactly how I'm going to seem. Bloody Hell. But it has to be said, even if only to be on the safe side. "Don't you think that's odd, keeping a relationship secret, just because people might judge you?” I pause. "We're not talking about hiding a relationship because being open would put you in danger, are we? This isn't like Lena and her girlfriend being scared Chris will hurt one of them, is it? We're just talking about people being judgemental, right? Unless you think people might kick off because Paul's white?"

Angie shakes her head. "No, that's nothing to do with any of it."

"Then why can't you tell anyone?" I coax her.

"Because of his reputation, obviously," Angie replies, rolling her eyes, "Because everyone thinks Paul's a bad kid who does shitty things and hits people."

"Yeah, I know," I reply, "And there's a reason for that, isn't there?"

Angie scowls. "He doesn't do half the stuff people say."

"So he does do the other half?" I ask, "Which bits are true, then? The bit where he's a thief? Where he's a spoilt bastard? The part where he's a homophobe? Or the part where he hits people?"

Angie looks away quickly, which is becoming a habit for her, I guess. At least, it's a habit during this conversation, which says a lot more than any of the words were exchanging. "You know which part," she says, and I do know.

And I really wish I didn't know. Because how the Hell am I meant to know he hasn't hit her? The thought of it balls my hands into fists, and I grind my teeth so hard that it hurts. But only for a moment. And I don't let her see. I owe her better than that.

"Angie… how many times?" I ask gently, hands moving slowly, eyebrows curving delicately, so that she can see I'm not angry. Because I'm not angry. Not at her.

She shakes her head. "You don't need to worry. It was only the once. And it was my fault, anyway. I said something nasty. It was out of order."

"You know that doesn't make it OK, right?"

"It does if he apologised, the next time we saw each other, and he did, so—"

"So you think that's gonna be the only time. The last time, even. Angie. Believe me. It won't be, unless you get out of here as soon as you can." I gesture around the room, indicating that we're at home, in our bedroom, and that she couldn't be safer "And that means you've got to call him right now, and you've got to tell him it's over. And then you've got to tell Mum and Dad that Paul hit you."

Angie nods, staring into her lap. For a moment, I think she's about to burst into tears, cling to me, and cry and cry until she has no tears left, only the strength she needs to make that kind of phonecall.

She doesn't really like using the phone anyway, even if it's just to call a restaurant and book a table, or call the library and ask a book to be held for her. She gets so nervous that sometimes I wish I could just pick up the phone and do it for her… but she wants to do everything herself.

Guess that runs in the family. So maybe I should have seen this coming

"You think I should break up with him," she says, "And you think I should get out of the relationship. Because you don't want me to be involved with Paul." She's been signing with her head bowed, but now she looks up, and meets my eyes. "Because you don't want me to be happy."

Shit.

"That's not what's going on," I sign, "I promise, Angie, I don't want anything more than for you to be happy."

She doesn't seem to see my words. "You don't want me to be happy," she signs again, "Because you're jealous and you're bitter than I'm the first one of us to get a boyfriend, and you still can't. And you're my big sister and you should be happy for me, but you can't, because you can't stand to see me have something before you do."

"Angie, where's this venom coming from?" My throat hurts. I'm glad I can talk without my voice.

"I should ask you the same!" she retorts, fingers jagged with anger, "You're trying to sabotage my relationship! What the Hell is wrong with you? Or is it the same thing that makes guys avoid you?"

Where's my little sister here? She's never said anything like this to me before. Is it Paul, making her say these things, or are they coming from her own head of her volition?

I want to be sick.

"Angie, don't! You're being horrible!" My hands are shaking, my eyes are burning, and my face is on fire.

She just laughs. "Well, at least I'm not so horrible that I can't get a boyfriend! At least I'm not so horrible that I have to put other people down just as soon as it looks like they might be happy! You know who else does that?"

"Who?" I whisper, and I can feel my voice reduced to a papery croak.

"Chris!" Angie fingerspells triumphantly, "Chris fucking Davison! That's who you sound like! So go on! Beat the shit out of me, kill me for being in love!" She sticks her chin out, as if she's offering her face up to be hit.

"Angie, stop it!" I sob, suddenly in floods of tears, "I don't want to hurt you! I'm trying to stop you getting hurt!"

"Well, then, let me be happy!" she signs, shouting as she does, "And stop being such a bitch!" She sighs heavily, and rolls her eyes. "That means get the fuck off my bunk. Go and sit on your own. Cry to someone who cares."

I don't need telling twice.

I scramble down the bunk bed ladder, crawl under my duvet, and pull the cover over my head, tears soaking into the pillow.

What is wrong with her? Why can't she see it, like everyone else can?

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Dinner that night passes without a word from her to me, much as I might speak to her. And I do.

She brushes her teeth. She brushes her hair. She gets into bed, and turns off the lights, so that I can’t talk to her.

Taking out my hearing aid and putting it in its case on my bedside table, I speak into the thick darkness that stuffs our room.

She can hear me. And she can’t turn her ears off.

“I know you think I’m trying to sabotage you, Angie. I’m sorry. I’m sorry for whatever I did that made it look that way, but I promise you, it’s not what it looks like. I’m worried about you. You’re my baby sister, and I don’t want you to get hurt. And I think you might be in danger as long as you’re in a relationship with Paul. It’s up to you who you date--of course it’s up to you--but I can’t just sit there and say nothing. Angie? Angie… could you please turn the light back on?”

The bed trembles slightly, as she turns over, and I guess she might have put the pillow over her head, to block me out.

And by the time my alarm flashes to wake me in the morning, Angie’s gone.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

All day, Angie avoids me at school. For the most part, of course, that’s not difficult, and you’d probably say I’m ignoring her, just as much. Or, at least, you might say that, until you saw us at break.

We make something like eye-contact across the quad, and she turns and walks in the opposite direction, as if she’s come to the end of a pier and only realised, reaching the very last plank, where she is. She almost physically jolts as she spots me, just as if she’s collided with some invisible railing.

That’s the way it is all through the day. We don’t see each other much, since I’m in Year Ten and she’s in Year Nine, but when we do see each other, it’s like a cold wind’s blown down the corridor, freezing the air as it slams all the doors.

She and I wouldn’t be going home today, anyway. Angie has choir practice after school, one evening a week, and so it’s up to me to catch the bus with my friends, and for Mum to go and pick her up in the car, later on, somewhere around five p.m.; I forget the exact time.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The bus rolls up, and Gordon rests his head heavily on my shoulder as soon as we get to our seats at the back. He feels like a grumpy stone parrot.

“What’s the matter?” I ask.

“Paul!” he signs, rolling his eyes as if he were in a Renaissance painting, having spears lobbed at him. “He’s coming to my house for dinner this evening, and Mum’s all like, “Gordon, you have to come down from your room, and be sociable, or whatever-the-fuck,” and I’m like, “No, Mum, you’re literally a state-sponsored thug, fuck the police, especially you,” and she’s all like, “You do know it’s an offence to disobey a direct order from a pig?” and I’m like, “Fuck,” so there goes my evening, all screwed to Hell. So I’d quite like to be dead. How’s your day been?”

“Angie’s not speaking to me,” I sign, looking at the ceiling of the bus and hoping that’ll keep tears at bay.

“Oh, shit, honey, that’s fucked,” Gordon says, reaching up to stroke my cheek clumsily. “You OK?”

I shake my head. “She’s getting herself into trouble, I know, and there’s nothing I can do to convince her to get out. She’s not talking to me, and she’s not listening to me. And I think it’ll be worse for her if I tell our parents what’s going on. At the very least, it’ll piss her off no end, and I can’t be dealing with that right now, I can’t.” I sigh heavily, and rub the heel of my hand through my hair. “Don’t you dare tell her I told you, but I think she’s at the start of an abusive relationship.”

Gordon sits up so suddenly that he catches me on the chin. “Oh, fuck, sorry, sorry, sorry!” he signs, rubbing it better with his thumb. “Sorry, sweetie! It’s just… I mean… I know Paul’s a dickhead, but I never thought he’d be that bad. Guess I should have done, but--”

“Wait, you knew they were together?” I frown at him. “Just when were you going to tell me?”

“I thought you already knew. You and Angie tell each other everything, right?”

Oh, I like the irony of that. Especially right now. And, by “like,” I mean “fucking hate.”

“That’s what I thought,” I reply, tutting. I do like to tut. There’s something commiserating about the small suction of my tongue jolting against the hard ridge behind my teeth. And then suddenly I’m shaking, convulsing, almost. “Do you know he hit her?”

Gordon startles. “What the absolute fuck?! When?!”

I shake my head. “Don’t know. She wouldn’t tell me. She wouldn’t tell me anything. I’m not even sure she meant to tell me that much; she kind of… pushed me to draw my own conclusion, but… I don’t know what else she could have meant by what she said.” My stomach clenches, and I shudder.

“Do you want me to ask him what the Hell he’s playing at?” asks Gordon, “Obviously I wouldn’t put it quite like that. I don’t even have to phrase it as a question, if you think it’d be better some other way. He knows I know they’re together, so it’s probably safe for me to mention their relationship casually, so maybe I could bring it up, like, kind of casually? Would that help, do you think?”

I nod. Go ahead. I’m not meant to know a damn thing.” Another tut. “Paul wants to keep it quiet.”

Gordon raises his eyebrows. “Didn’t seem that quiet when I bumped into them in Prudhoe. If anything, he seemed pretty keen on rubbing the news in my face then. Still. That might just have been his opportunity to get one up on me. Or maybe it’s just you that he doesn’t want knowing, and everyone else is fair play.” He stops signing, and grimaces. “Actually, that would fit, wouldn’t it?”

I nod grimly. “You’re seeing the red flags, too, then? I guess on the bright side, it’s not just me, but… on the other hand… if they’re visible to anyone, it’s ‘cause there’s a prolem, isn’t it?” I wrinkle my nose. “And that’s never good.”

“Do you want me to see what else I can find out?” Gordon asks again.

And, this time, I nod. “But be subtle,” I urge him, “Don’t let him realise you’re digging for dirt, or he won’t tell you anything. And he might even take it out...” I swallow hard, a lump returning, rocky and painful, to my throat. “He might even take it out on Angie.”

“No, you’re right, we can’t risk that,” Gordon signs. Then he wraps his arms around my shoulder, hugs me close, and strokes my hair. “It’s OK. You don’t have to worry about her. It’ll all be all right.”

We both nod, but we both know it’s a lie.

But what neither of us know is just how far from the truth it will turn out to be.

Chapter 29: Revelation II: Etta
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Discussion of Intimate Partner Violence / Discussion of Rape.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.
*Note: The discussion of intimate partner violence in this chapter leads to things being OK for the character subjected to it. Ultimately it is a positive discussion. The rape discussed is not an actual event in the story.

Chapter Text
It’s about half-five when Gordon starts texting me that evening.

I’m curled up on my bed, sipping an oversized mug of tea, and trying not to stare at my phone--a watched pot never boils--when the screen comes to life, lighting up with Gordon’s picture, and the text superimposed on it.

Quickly, I take a screenshot, and send it to him over Facebook, because the text says, “Kill me,” and it looks like some kind of tech-savvy hitman’s “wanted” poster. Which is exactly what I tell him.

“Lol, topical,” he writes back, and then he’s typing, and typing, and typing, and I’m sipping, and sipping, and sipping, and trying not to imagine what he’s going to say next. But this is Gordon we’re talking about. The things he says can rarely be imagined by anyone else in advance.

“I told myself I’d never go back into the closet, but here I am in the airing cupboard! What have I done?! How many times must I come out??!!” he writes.

I stifle a giggle, have another sip of tea, and write back, “How do I know you’re telling the truth? What if you’re out there, in the world, committing a crime, and only telling me you’re in your airing cupboard, so that you’ll have an alibi when the police inevitably catch up with you, hmm?”

Because this conversation seems to be leaping from one platform to another, taking us frog-hopping across social media, Gordon sends me a Snapchat.

A purple Snapchat.

I open it, grinning, to see a delightful ten-second video of Gordon, hunched like a smirking gargoyle in a dark cupboard, stacked with folded towels and clean bed-linen, giggling as the door opens, and Mrs Benn looms in with a face at once puzzled and exasperated.

The caption Gordon’s put over the video is, “Coming out to Mummy Dearest,” which is nothing if not on-brand.

“Foiled!!!” he texts me a moment later, back on SMS again, “because Mum’s turned off the Wifi! This is literally homophobia!!”

“Noo, babby!” I text.

“I know! Poor little Gordy-Wordy! What way is this to treat an astrologer!”

Oh, well, that probably makes sense in his head.

“Are you suffering greatly, honey?” I ask, gulping down another mouthful of my tea, which has cooled to the perfect temperature, hot but still plenty comfortable to slurp.

“I do everything greatly,” replies Gordon, “And, for real, this evening is absolutely shite, and if it weren’t for Auntie Lizzie and Uncle Ross, I would be flipping the dining table by now.”

“Is Paul up to his usual fuckheadery?”

“You know it. Must dash--parsnips call--but will definitely tell you anything Dr Wank says during tea.”

“Dr Wank,” I mutter, wanting to admonish Gordon for being a cheeky bastard, but knowing it’s pretty much the perfect nickname for Paul.

Not that he deserves the honour of a Doctorate.

I open up my laptop and scroll through the Rainbow Room for about… ooh, it must be thirty or so minutes, because I manage to read about two-and-a-half articles… until my phone lights up again.

Another text from Gordon.

I pick up my phone more slowly than I should. He’s probably texting me something silly, and I tell myself so. He’s probably writing something along the lines of, “This evening is terrible, please find a way to kill me without damaging my incredible wit, beauty, and/or charm.”

But, at the same time, we’re talking about an evening with Paul. There’s a reason I’m having to calm myself down with reassurances that everything is fine It stops working just as I get hold of my phone, and my fingers clench tightly around it, just like my jaw would snap shut around your average custard cream..

Minus the crunch.

Now, then, what has Gordon got to say? Will it be typical bitchiness about his cousin, or your more, run-of-the-mill, over-poetic, traditionally…. Gordonian yammering? Hmm. I wonder what we can expect. Hmm.

“Please don’t panic,” he says.

Oh, thanks, Gordon, yeah, thanks a lot! Certainly there’s no better way to make me panic in record time that telling me not to panic. If I weren't immediately plunged into to the depths of anxiety, and imagining the absolute worst, I'd probably tell him so.

But all I can manage is a string of question marks.

"I really don't want to worry you, but, given the way he said it, like he was boasting about it, or he'd won some kind of prize… and given that Angie's only thirteen…" Gordon is writing to me one line at a time. I hate it when people send me whole paragraphs over Messenger--it just seems so aggressive, unless they’re telling me something happy and exciting in real time, so that I can share it--but, honestly, right now? I’d settle for a paragraph if it stopped me freaking out.

Fat chance.

“I thought I should tell you… Paul says he’s slept with Angie.”

And there it is, and I don’t feel better at all. Of course I don’t feel better at all.

“WHAT THE FUCK??!!” I write, stabbing the “send” key.

“He didn’t put it quite like that,” Gordon says, as if that improves things at all, “And I’d rather not repeat exactly what he said, if that’s all the same to you.”

“It is all the same to me,” I text back, almost throwing my mug down onto my bedside table as I get off my bed, throw on my jacket, and stride down the stairs.

It’s drizzling outside. But the light rain is doing nothing to cool me down. Fury is burning through me faster than a firehose could extinguish, and my marching footsteps on the cobblestones hurt, every jolt and twist and slip a personal attack, balling my fists tighter and tighter until I could punch the goddamn clouds of the sky.

I can’t breathe.

I won’t be able to breathe as long as Paul’s still breathing, and, for the first time, I understand. I really do understand Gordon and Sophie, and how they could fly off the handle like they did with Chris.

My sister. My little sister. My thirteen-year-old baby sister.

How dare he? How dare he hit her, how dare he rape her, how dare he even so much as look at her?

He will die tonight, and the whole Valley will know why. What he did. Whom he hurt. He will die, and I will kick the first clod of dirt into his shallow fucking grave, and I will spit on the ground that cover him. He will die, and he will die tonight.

I launch myself at Gordon’s front door.

Fists. Forearms. Elbows. I slam them all against the panels. I howl at the doorknocker with the full force of my lungs, and kick, hard, at the wood. “Paul!” I scream, striking and striking and striking. I am tell his name to the night, hoping that any lurking spirits are hungry. I hope their teeth are shark, and their appetites long and onerous to quench. I pound. I punch. I beat.’

And the door bursts inward, and, for a moment, I think I’ve knocked it down.

But Mrs Benn is there in front of me, staring, glaring at my fists, where they are frozen, mid-flail.

“What the Hell is going on?!” she demands.

“Ask Paul!” I shout, pointing into the hallway behind her, where Gordon is standing with Paul and his parents.

Paul’s eyes are enormous, round and planetary, and he’s shaking where he stands.

Mrs Benn turns around to look at him, too, and I take my chance, striding past her into the house, grabbing Paul’s shoulders and shaking him so hard that the joints in his neck clicks.

He is an inch taller than I am, but I’m not going to give him a fucking inch, not after what he’s done. There is strength in extra centimeters, and he’s abused it in the foulest way I can imagine.

“Tell them what you did!” I scream into his face, “Tell them all what you did to my little sister!”

“Etta,” Gordon signs, pointing behind me.

Hands land on my shoulders, prise my grip off Paul in such an… oddly gentle way.

I look up, and see Gordon’s Aunt Lizzie--Mrs Benn’s sister… and, herself, a Mrs Benn--blinking at me with tears in her eyes.

“What’s the matter, sweetie?” she asks, “Come and sit down and tell me.”

Maria Benn glares at us as Lizzie ushers me into the living room, but Gordon gives his Mum the stink eye, and follows us.

“Auntie Lizzie,” he says, signing along as he speaks, “Did you know Paul and Angie were in a relationship?”

Aunt Lizzie frowns, as if she were trying to work out which Angie Gordon meant. But, of course, that’s not what’s puzzling her. She knows exactly who Angie is; she’s one of Paul’s cousins’ cousins.

My Mum’s sister is married to Maria and Lizzie’s brother--that’s my Uncle Don--so Gina and Alex are Paul’s cousins, too. And Gordon’s. Living in an area like this, Gordon and Paul might as well be my cousins, and Angie’s, too.

What’s puzzling Aunt Lizzie is how she can have been living in such a close-knit community as Chase Valley and not know her son was in a relationship with a girl who only lives two streets away. Especially a girl who’s almost family.

“Since when?” she asks, letting Gordon interpret for her.

I shrug. “About ten days, I think. That’s what Angie said.”

“I found out at the weekend,” Gordon explains, “But they’ve been keeping it quiet, and Etta only found out yesterday. And the conversation didn’t go well.”

Looking at how his mouth is moving as he signs, it wouldn’t surprise me if he were talking under his breath, which would make sense. I haven’t a clue where Paul and his Dad and Gordon’s Mum are; when I look behind me, to see if they’re still in the front hallway, they’ve disappeared.

But maybe they’re in the kitchen. I don’t know how easy it is to listen to a conversation from another room. So maybe Gordon’s worried they’ll overhear us. That Paul will overhear us, and take it out on Angie.

“She says he hit her,” I say, hoping I’m whispering, too. It feels like I am.

Aunt Lizzie’s face, and bear in mind she’s white to start with, goes whiter still. “Oh, my God, I’m so sorry,” she says, signing, “Sorry,” which, I guess, is kind of courteous of her, but, as I say--

“I’m not the one who needs the apology, and you’re not the one who needs to give it.” I pause. It is decent of her. “But thank you. It means a lot.”

“When did he hit her?” Lizzie asks.

I shake my head. “Angie didn’t say. She wouldn’t tell me anything. She only told me by accident, I think, and then it turned into a massive argument, and she hasn’t spoken to me since yesterday.”

“She asked me to keep an eye on Paul this evening,” Gordon explains to his Aunt, “And then I told Etta what he’d told me… which was that he’d slept with Angie.”

Lizzie’s face goes even paler. “Do you mean they’ve had sex?”

“He means Paul’s raped Angie,” I correct her, “It’s rape; she’s only thirteen, and he’s been fourteen for almost a year. When’s his birthday, September?”

“October,” Lizzie says, “But I take your point.” She shakes her head, and looks at her hands, folded in her lap. Then she says something I can’t read.

Gordon interprets, “I’ll talk to him. I won’t just have a word with him. It’ll be a proper conversation, and not just one. I’m sorry.”

“Again,” I say, “It’s Angie that needs an apology from Paul.”

“Not only,” Lizzie says, looking me in the eye, “My family’s hurt your family, and I’m responsible for my son’s actions. He shouldn’t have grown up to think that kind of behaviour was OK. Because it’s not. But I don’t know where he could’ve got the idea that… that treating someone like that was acceptable.”

Gordon shakes his head. “Nor do I. Not to be rude or anything, Auntie Lizzie, but sometimes I wonder how you and Uncle Russ could be so nice, and then turn out a kid like Paul.”

Lizzie sighs, and scratches her chin. “Maybe we’ve been too nice, too lenient. I think that might be it. Letting him mess around, given him too much leeway. And not enough discipline.” She sighs.

I fight the urge to retort, “You think?!” and just nod. “But you know that. So you can make it better, can’t you?” I’m thinking of the friendship that’s formed between Gordon and Ffion since he decided to fix things between them. It’s never too late to mend matters, is it?

“I hope so,” Lizzie says, peering into the hallway. Her mouth moves, and she beckons someone closer.

When I look around, Paul is standing right there, with Maria and Russ behind him.

“What have you got to say for yourself?” Lizzie asks him, “What have you done with Angie?”

Paul looks at the floor, and mumbles, shrugging.

“Don’t shrug!” Lizzie says, “Stand up straight, and tell everyone what you’ve done! Because you’ve upset Etta this much, so I can only imagine you’ve upset Angie more.”

“I told her I was sorry,” Paul says, looking at me, “And I don’t know why you’re pissed off about it. It’s not like I hit you. And it was only the once, anyway.”

I look to Gordon for his interpretation, and then I round on Paul, springing to my feet.

“That’s not what I’m pissed off about!” I snap. And then I hesitate, because it’s not quite true, is it? “It’s not the only thing I’m pissed off about!”

Paul sneers at me. “What else are you pissed off about, then?”

“You raped Angie!” I shout, “Gordon told me!”

He turns to glare at Gordon, and hisses--as Gordon puts into BSL--”You went and told?! It was a secret relationship!”

“Oh, yeah, a very secret relationship, that you’re waving around like a trophy,” Gordon says, rolling his eyes, “I forgot about that kind. Maybe next time you’re trying to keep something a secret, you shouldn’t use it as a boast! How’s that--”

Paul kicks him in the shin.

“That’s enough!” Maria snaps, “All of you, you’re going to sit down and calm down, and we’re going to talk this over like adults.”

“We’re not adults, though, that’s the point,” Gordon says, as she heads to the kitchen. I guess she’s going to get paper and a pen to write all this down. I guess she’ll have to make it an official report… though I don’t know how that’ll work with Angie not here. “For God’s sake,” Gordon mutters, turning so that only I can see his hands. “Are you OK? Do you want me to phone Angie and get her to come over?”

“She’s at choir,” I reply, “And I doubt she’ll want to talk to me about this, let alone to half your family.” I glance around the living room.

Paul is sitting on the coffee table, hunched over his phone, until his Dad swipes it out of his hands and switches it off.

Gordon does his best not to smirk, which, I guess, is kind of gallant of him? Not that this is a situation where feeling triumphant makes me feel better, but I do feel a little triumphant.

Or maybe I’m just relieved that Paul’s parents are finally trying to do something about their son’s shitty behaviour. I guess “too much leeway” is going to be “no leeway at all” from now on.

Maria returns a moment later with a notepad and a biro, and sits down on the sofa opposite ours. “Get off the table, please, Paul,” she says, “There’s better furniture to sit on.”

“You can sit on the floor,” his Dad tells him, “And you can sit with your legs crossed, and your arms folded, and your back straight.”

Paul glares at him, and doesn’t move.

“I mean it,” his Dad says, “I’ve had enough of your insolence. Get on the floor.”

“Fine,” Paul snarls, through gritted teeth. He sits down as his Dad’s told him to, and stares at the ceiling as the others start talking.

“You can consider this an interview under caution,” Maria says, “I’m a police officer. If I have reason to believe you’re going to commit a crime, I’m within my rights to arrest you.”

Lizzie nods, and looks at Paul sharply. “Do you understand?” she asks him.

He shrugs. “Whatever,” he mutters, rolling his eyes.

"None of your lip, lad," Russ says, which Gordon interprets with a smirk I'd describe as somewhere between proud, triumphant and relieved.

I wish I could fe l any good way about this. But all I can feel is murderous, and broken on Angie's behalf. My skin feels dirty, like I've been pulled out of an industrial wheelie bin, half-alive, and filthy with rubbish-sludge. I clench my fists, and squint at Maria's lips to see what she'll say next.

"Did you hit Angela Carter Jones?" she asks flatly, eyes fixed on Paul's face. She's got her copper's hat on—not literally—and her expression is harder to read than the words flickering off her lips

Paul nods. "Once," he says, "But I said I was sorry, and she said that made things OK."

I grind my teeth and wonder when I'll get the Nobel Peace Prize for resisting the urge to snap, "It makes nothing OK," because I fucking deserve it. This is hard work.

"And have you had sex with Angela?" Maria asks.

Gordon looks away, eyes big, face red, and shielded with his hand. Just for a moment. And then he tells me what his Mum's said.

And then what Paul says: "No."

I want to be relieved, but there's a lump in my stomach the size of a fist, and I can barely breathe, let alone sigh.

"Liar," I hiss at Paul, "You told Gordon you had! You raped my little sister, and then you bragged about it, so don't you dare try to dance around it now." I narrow my eyes at him. "You know what you did. At least have the decency to admit it now, you coward."

Paul holds up his hands, and looks me dead in the eye, which is a surprise, and shakes his head. "I haven't had sex with her," he says again, "And I certainly didn't rape anyone. I was lying when I said I'd had sex with her. Being stupid. Showing off. And it went too far, and I'm sorry."

I flower at him. "Sure, and I'll trust you next time Satan goes ice-skating. Why should any of us believe a single word you say?"

Gordon jogs me. "Have you ever met a pig-headed teenage fuckwit who'll admit to being a virgin? Or a liar?"

"Of course not!" I reply, looking at Gordon like he's an idiot, because that's exactly what he's being, "He's obviously trying to cover it up! Why are you vouching for him?"

"I've never known him lie to my Mum before. He's such a suckup, absolutely loves that she's a pig, and uses every opportunity to get people into trouble. Wouldn't surprise me if he goes into the police himself one day." He pauses. "Actually, after this, it will, but. He doesn't lie to my Mum. Not even by omission. And this is how his face looks when he's telling the truth."

"He wouldn't even lie to save his own skin?" I demand.

Gordon shakes his head. "I've never known him do something shitty without getting caught red-handed—mostly it's because he's said or done something stupid—so I really can't say, but I have seen him dob other people in, and, right now, he sounds just like he does when he's doing that. He's giving himself away, Etta. He's telling the truth for once in his ugly little life."

We're having this whole conversation in BSL, which only the two of us—out of everyone in this room—can understand. Ordinarily, I'd feel rude, excluding the others, and I'd voice along for them, but, right now, I don't care, and I can't be bothered.

Maria waves us down like she's a bedraggled hitchhiker trying to cadge a lift in our Luton. "It would be nice if you could let the rest of us know what you're saying," she says haughtily, "Gordon, I didn't raise you to be rude."

Gordon winks as he interprets this for me and I have to work hard not to laugh for the brief second I can forget the context.

Remembering why I’m here, in Gordon’s front room, surrounded by half his family--because only his brother, sister and, for obvious reasons, his Dad aren’t here--is like being kicked in the stomach. I have the plummeting feeling of falling to the floor.

Gordon explains it to his family, and, by the time I’m anything like right in myself, he’s finished relaying--a (hopefully) heavily-censored version of--our conversation.

“Of course I’m telling the truth!” Paul snaps, “I don’t lie when it’s important! God!” He rolls his eyes, and sighs over-dramatically--and suddenly you can see he’s related to Gordon; it’s only really when they’re pissed off that they look alike--and glares at me. “Why are you making assumptions?”

I roll my eyes right back at him. “Past performance,” I reply, “If you’ve done it before, you can do it again. History tends to repeat itself, and there’s a good reason you’ve got a bad reputation. You lie all the time! Why shouldn’t I expect you to lie now? Gordon reckons you’re telling the truth here, but that’s the only reason I’m gonna let myself believe you, OK? It’s because I trust Gordon, nt because I trust you, because I don’t. I’m just trying to get to the bottom of what you’ve done to my little sister.”

“Ask her your fucking self,” snaps Paul, “If I’m so fucking dishonest!”

“Fine! I will!” I bark, standing up and marching across the room to the door. Just before I leave the lounge for the hallway, I turn and stop, hand on the doorframe. “Sorry to have spoiled your evening, everyone. But thank you for your help.” I pause. “Truly. I’m thankful. And sorry.”

“You can go now, Loretta,” Maria Benn says, raising her eyebrows--though she’s not asking me if I’d like to leave--and casting her eyes in the direction of the front door. She points, to make it obvious.

“Yes, Mrs Benn. Sorry, Mrs Benn,” I say, bowing my head and scurrying out of the house, pulling the front door closed behind me as gently as I can.

As I cross the street, a shudder glances across my shoulders and down my spine.

How does Mrs Benn do that? Make me feel both like a troublemaking schoolgirl--because I’m only one of those, and only for the moment--and some kind of downtrodden housemaid? Both, and both at once?

“You can go now,” indeed! True, it’s her house, but my Mum wouldn’t dream of saying anything like that to Gordon. Not ever.

As soon as I’m home, I run up the stairs, pick up my phone, and check for texts.

There aren’t any.

I send one to Gordon, saying I’m really sorry if my outburst causes him trouble at home, but, to tell the truth, I know it will. It probably already has.

Mrs Benn isn’t just a copper at work. She brings her job home with her, even when that means treating her kids like criminals. Gordon’s told me quite a few things that make me glad my Mum’s a teacher, and my Dad works for the county council.

Kind of wish I could bring him into our family instead, actually. Make him my brother. And bring Jake and Tetty to live with us, too.

Not quite sure how we’d house everyone, given we’ve only got two bedrooms--and Angie and I are already in bunkbeds--but I think it would be nicer to be a little overcrowded than it is to be worrying about Mrs Benn yelling at everyone.

Once the text’s off, flying across the road, I put my phone down on my bedside table, pull my duvet over my head, and kip until seven.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

And why do I only kip until seven?

Because that’s when Angie gets home, a fact she illuminates by slamming the door behind her so loudly that even I hear it. My hearing aid isn’t just for decoration, even if my left ear is.

I sit up, blinking groggily, and move to glare at her until--as it takes a few moments--the events of the evening come back to me. “Please don’t say you’re still cross with me,” I sign, “Because I’m really, really sorry. And there's something you should know.”

She scowls at me, and strides across the room. Just before she climbs up the ladder to her bunk, she looks at me. “You’re not pregnant, are you?” she signs, eyebrows raised.

“No! Angie! Christ on the cross! Of course I’m not! I haven’t even had--oh, my God, the things you say, sometimes!” I sit up immediately, and pull the duvet aside, yanking my T-shirt up so that we can both look at my appropriately Netherlandy stomach: mostly flat, slightly lumpy, but without a single significant hill. “Why? Do I look it?”

Angie bursts out laughing, and the look of mirth on her pretty face (prettier than mine, but only slightly) is a huge relief.

She doesn’t laugh at anything when she’s really angry.

“Of course not! But, when I said I had something to tell you, you thought I was gonna say I was pregnant. So I kind of wondered if that was why your mind went there--because you were, too.” She pauses, and shudders. “Imagine having a baby now, though. Sheesh.” Then she shakes her head. “No, I don’t think I’d want to get involved in anything rumpy or pumpy until I’m at Sixth Form, at least. I’m only just getting used to kissing!” She drops her hands, touches her lips, and giggles. “And even that’s kind of weird.”

“Oh, thank the Lord,” I say quickly, before I can think about how right I know she is, “I’ve been so worried--all evening--that I had to go to sleep, just so that I wouldn’t have to think about it, until I could have your side of the story.” I sigh, and go back into BSL. “Make sure the door’s shut properly. Put a chair under the doorhandle--so that Mum and Dad won’t come crashing in. This isn’t the sort of thing you’ll want them to walk in on me telling you.”

“OK, so now you’re scaring me,” Angie says, sticking the door closed and coming to sit at the end of my bunk. “Has something happened?”

I shake my head. “Not to me.” I pause. “Not to you. Not really to anyone. It’s not so much something that happened, as much as something that’s been said. By Paul. To Gordon.” I take a deep breath, and sigh heavily before I sign the last bit. “About you.”

Angie frowns. “What’s Paul said?” Gordon already knew Paul and I were together--he’s known for a little while now--so it’s not that, is it? She pauses. Drops her hands. Her eyes loom. “He didn’t tell Gordon why he hit me, did he?”

“No, sweetie. He said… He said you and he’d had sex. And then Gordon told me.”

If it were true, Angie would go bright crimson. That’s what happens when she’s done something she maybe shouldn’t have done, and thought for a moment that she’s managed to get away with it… only for someone to catch her out.

I turn exactly the same colour, and so does our dad; it’s a Carter thing, not a Jones thing.

But Angie remains a reassuringly normal shade of golden brown.

Well. I say reassuring. It would be reassuring if her face didn’t immediately crumple, her eyes fill with tears, and her shoulders slump.

“So he told people we did anyway,” she signs, her hands trembling in small movements.

"He said eventually that you hadn't actually," I sign, but I don't know how much it's going to help.

Angie doesn't see my response; she's staring into her lap, eyebrows furrowed, as if she's trying to work out how to word what she says next: "Gordon saw us together in Prudhoe. That's how he found out we were an item. That's how long he's known." She blinks hard. "What he doesn't know is what happened, next time we went to Prudhoe."

I frown, and lean forward a little, so that I'm halfway to sitting up properly. "When was that, then? I don't remember—"

She shakes her head. "You wouldn't. You were asleep, and Paul was throwing pebbles at the window. Last night… he called a taxi to come and pick us up at about half past midnight… to drop us off at Prudhoe Castle." She grins at the ceiling, but it's nothing like her genuine smile. "And I thought, "Oh, lit, we're gonna go stargazing, and explore the castle in the dark, and it's gonna be so sneaky, such an adventure. "Wild youth," and all that." She laughs bitterly, and squeezes her eyes shut, the first tears sliding down her cheeks and smearing her foundation.

A line of dirty maybe appears in the teartrack, dirty maybe smudged with yellow and grey-green. I think of a watercolour painting gone wrong, bad colour choice, overwet paper. Bruised.

That's where he hit her. That's why she's been calling on her makeup, these last few days. How did I not realise? I'm her big goddamn sister. It's my job to realise. Protect her. Keep her safe.

"And then we got there," Angie signs, "And he pushed me against one of the castle walls and stuck his hands up my shirt and an stuck his tongue down my throat, and I wanted to push him away, but… but it was like my arms were… frozen? And my heart was going—" She beard her chest so hard and fast that I have to grab her fist to make her stop. "And I wanted to scream…"

I shut my eyes, and shake my head. I can't stand to think of what's coming next. It's not that I don't want her to tell me this. I just don't want her to have anything to tell me. Not along these lines.

I try to console myself—so that I can be strong for her—with knowing Paul insisted he hadn't done anything to her. But it doesn't work.

"He didn't rape me," she signs, shaking her head as she stares at her hands. "It didn't get that far. All at once, he… he stopped, let go of ne, and stared at me like I was something disgusting. Like I was shit. And he said, "If you're not going to put in any effort, why the Hell did you bother coming?"" She swallows so hard that I see the lump shudder up and down her throat. "And I said I wasn't ready for that yet… and he said, ""What are you so scared of? It's not like anyone's gonna find out! And now…" She sighs. "And now he's going around telling people that he did—that we did—and I might as well have… might as well have just let him. Maybe then it would have been OK."

I sit up right away, wrap my arms around my little sister's shoulders, and voice, "No. It shouldn't ever be about "letting" the other person do stuff to you. It should be about both of you wanting to do stuff together. With each other. Else… else, you know what it's called, right?"

My heart's racing, and I can feel it beating in my ears, like someone jumping on a trampoline.

Angie nods. "But it didn't get that far," she signs, "And it's not going to."

"It had better not!" I sign, "Or else Paul is going to meet the Grim Reaper really quite suddenly."

"No, that's not what I mean," Angie says, "I mean it's not going to happen either way. Sex or rape. Not with Paul. I'm not going to let him near me ever again." She leans against me, and hugs me back for a moment, before pulling away, so that she can sign, "I'm breaking up with him tomorrow. First thing." She pauses. "No. No, not first thing. I'll do it at lunchtime. That way, if there's any big kickoff involved… it'll only fuck up my afternoon, not my whole day."

"The sooner you do it, the better, Angie," I urge her, "And if Paul gives you any grief about it… you can absolutely go to Mrs Paulson or Mr Peters and tell them what he's done."

"No!" Angie shakes her head violently. "No, if I do that, then they'll definitely call the police. Do I really want to press charges against the nephew of a cop? Sure, yeah, let me just dial 999 right now, real quick, where's my phone?"

I shut my eyes. "Of course," I mumble, "That's exactly why Gordon wanted to deal with everything on his own. Cause if his Mum." For a moment I wonder if I should tell Angie what happened this evening, when I went over to Gordon's, so angry, but then I think better of it.

Angie's already crying; she doesn't need bad news right now. She needs a proper hug, and a big cup of hot chocolate, and some bourbon biscuits. And then a nap.

"I'll come with you to break up with Paul tomorrow," I promise her, "You won't have to be on your own for a single moment of it. But if it's OK, I'll leave you up here for a little minutes while I pop downstairs and get you some snacks, yeah?"

Angie nods. "That might be nice," she signs, hugging me one last time before I go to the kitchen.

When I get back up to our room, Angie's climbed up to her bunk, and wrapped the duvet around her shoulders like a soft cloak.

We drink hot chocolate and eat biscuits together until Mum comes into our room and tells us to turn the lights off and go to sleep.

Chapter 30: Revelation III: Etta
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Intimate Partner Violence / Assault / Hospital.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
By the time it gets to lunchtime, Angie and I have never looked more alike in our lives. At least, we haven't if I'm right, and I look the way I think I do, if I look the way I feel. Because she looks the way I feel: grey, sick, ashen. Awful.

She grabs my hand when meet in the corner of the library for a last talkthrough of her plan.

"I'm gonna go up to him and sat, "It's over, and I don't want to talk about it,"" she signs, "And I'll say, "Don't call me or text me. Don't come to my house. Don't try to change my mind, because I won't. You are not my boyfriend anymore." And then I'm gonna walk away, and sit with you for the rest of lunch." She takes a deep breath, and exhales quickly, lips pursed. "And it's gonna be OK. It's gonna be over and done with." She blinks hard, and grips the back of the nearest chair. "And it's gonna be OK," she says, nodding, "It's gonna be fine."

I hug her, and find myself wondering if this is how Soph must have felt when she dumped Chris. If it would've gone on longer if he'd attacked her instead of Gordon, as if that's a choice I can imagine any God being able to make.

And then I catch myself. No. It's not the same situation, not remotely. Chris targeted Gordon because he's gay. Paul is targeting Angie because she's there. Sophie isn't gay, and she isn't there either, not since she told Chris where to get off. He won't come after her. He's got no reason to come after her.

"It is gonna be fine," I promise Angie, "And I know you want to go up to him on your own, but you know I'll be right there to step in if you need me. Just wave at me, and I'll be there before you can say "knife"."

"Ah, steady on, Etta, I'm not quite related to Gordon. Though I would feel better if I were. Then I'd have a knife."

I snort with laughter, and swat her very softly on the arm. "Behave yourself, missy."

Angie laughs. And then her face falls, as she remembers why we're having this conversation, as she remembers how we landed on this topic, as she remembers that she's already got a tie to Gordon's family.

And that she's got to cut that tie right now. Maybe I can see how a knife might come in handy.

She sighs. "Guess we'd better go and find him, then, hadn't we?" she signs, her eyes downcast. "Can you still come with me?"

I hug her, and say, "Of course I can. Why else would I promise? Come on, let's go now, and then I'll get you some hot chocolate from the canteen."

Hot chocolate always makes terrible situations bearable. No matter how bad it is, it's never quite as awful when there's a hefty mug of steamy deliciousness nestled in your cupped hands.

So therapeutic. So calming.

Provided you make it to the canteen.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Suffice to say: we don't make it to the canteen.

I'm standing too far away to be able to read Angie's lips. That's what she asked for, for me to stand far enough away that I can't see where she is in the little speech she's prepared. That way, I won't be able to jump in and complete it for her if she starts struggling.

She's a smart girl.

But she's not psychic. And so she doesn't see it coming.

Paul grabs her puff ponytail. Yanks. Yanks her head right to the side. Shoves her in the chest. Shoves her so hard that she stumbled, and falls to the ground, landing hard on her arms.

He kicks her in the stomach, and she curls in on herself as I sprint towards Paul, but it's like some kind of nightmare and I can't run fast enough to stop him grabbing her head and bashing it into the concrete and there's blood and there's blood and Angie's eyes are closed and her nose is bleeding and there's blood and why is there so much blood?

I drag Paul off my baby sister, and shove him away.

He stumbles, but he doesn't fall.

Tim grabs hold of him, pinning his arms by his sides and hoiking him off the floor. "You're coming with me," he says, teeth gritted, and then he hauls Paul off towards Mr Peters' office.

"Angie, oh, my God, are you OK? Angie, can you hear me? Squeeze my hand if you know I'm talking to you! Angie?" I'm desperate, all knees on concrete, hands wrapped around Angela's, heartbeat shaking my whole body.

Gordon runs over to us, and scoops me into a hug. "The school nurse is in her way," he says, "I think someone saw what happened and told her."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Who told the school, I don’t know.

Some anonymous Year Seven, maybe, or one of the Year Elevens wandering across the grounds because they have nowhere else to be now.

A good Samaritan.

The school nurse fetches me a chair so that I can sit next to Angie, where she lies on the cot in the medical room.

Her face is pale, and although her nose has stopped bleeding, she hasn't opened her eyes or moved of her own accord since the nurse and the receptionist lifted her onto a stretcher to carry her here.

No word about Paul. No word from Tim.

No word from anyone, actually. The receptionist came in a few moments ago, and I think she said something, but, by the time I realised she was standing in the doorway, she'd turned to go out again, and she didn't come back when I called for her.

Why do they never come back? Why are they the ones that never listen?

I don't know how much time passes before Char dashes into the medical room.

"I'm so sorry! I got here as fast as I could, but I only found out about a minute ago. What have they told you?" she asks, skidding to a halt, and crouching in front of me on the ugly lino.

I shake my head hopelessly.

Char nods. "I'll find out what I can." She squeezes my hand, and then leaves.

I stare at Angie, scrutinising her pallid face for any sign of awareness. And I find nothing.

I won't get. I'm not going to cry. How dare I even think about crying, when this is my fault? It's my job to protect her, my job to stand next to her and be by her side when she's going through difficult stuff. And I let her go and talk to Paul on her own. Let her go and talk to him face to face, where she'd be within arm's reach for him.

For him to just grab her. For him to do what he wanted.

When I glance down at my hands, my knuckles are white, and Angie's fingers are going purple at the tips. I loose her hands posthaste, and rub them gently, to try to get the colour more even.

"Sorry, sorry, sorry," I whisper, reaching up to stroke her hair, and bringing my hand away with fine streaks of red across the palms.

"Nurse!" I shout, "Someone! Anyone?! She's bleeding!"

I crane my neck to look at the door just as Char and the nurse rush in.

The nurse puts her hand gently on my shoulder as Char interprets for her. "The ambulance is on its way, and so are your parents. Let me see the back of her head again. I'm sure she'll be OK. Help is coming as fast as it can."

I bite back, "It needs to get here faster," and force myself to nod.

We live a long way from the ambulance station. And an even longer way from the hospital.

Char hugs me. "I can't find Gordon," she says, "Did you see where he went?"

I shake my head, brain lost in the blur between Angela's head hitting the ground and getting her to the medical room. Running by the stretcher, clinging to her hand. Somewhere in that was Gordon. But I didn't see him leave.

Did Chris get him? Take his chance while everyone was running and shouting about Angie, and grab Gordon then?

Bright lights flash in the corner of my vision, and I squeeze my eyes shut tightly, trying to stave off the aura of the migraine I know is probably coming. I can't help Gordon; I've got to stay with Angie in case she wakes up, because she'll wake up.

That's non-negotiable.

She will wake up, so that she can see Paul get what he deserves.

And then she does wake up. She opens her eyes so slowly I think I'm imagining it at first, and then she blinks, and her face folds up, mouth distorted by a mumble of pain. She covers her eyes with one hand, and puts the other against the back of her head, flinching as sharply as if her scalp were the flat of an iron.

"What happened?" she signs weakly, "What did Paul do?"

"He pushed you over," I whisper, "And bashed your head on the ground."

She signs "pain" in front of her tummy, outstretched index fingertips wincing towards each other. "My stomach hurts."

"I know, sweetie," I say, "He kicked you really hard before I got to you. Do you remember, you wanted me to stand away, so that you could do it on your own?" I pause, and shake my head. "I shouldn't have listened to that."

The corners of her mouth twitch, almost like she's trying to smile, but then furrows her brow. "Am I in the medical room?"

"Yeah, and the ambulance is coming. So's Mum. So's Dad. It's gonna be OK."

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Luckily everyone at the hospital agrees, once Angie's gone though a CT scanner, been X-rayed, and then prodded and peered at by about seven different doctors, and luckily Char gets to come with me and Angie in the ambulance. We might have been waiting hours for an interpreter otherwise, with all the staff trying to explain things to Angie and me in English only.

Mum arrives just as Angie's coming out of the scanner, and Dad comes into the ward about five minutes after she does.

He hugs Angie tightly, and then he hugs me, and then he hugs Mum, where she's sitting in a chair by Angie's bed.

The bruises are starting to bloom on Angie's face, purple anenomies and blue hydrangeas, but a nurse has washed all the blood away—every trace—and given Angie some IV painkillers, so that she can sit up and manage something near a smile.

"Do you remember when Etta got her first makeup ever? There was an eyeshadow palette," she signs, "And blusher, and all the colours were just—" She blinks hard, puffy eyes squeezing shut, "—so bright, like neon you know?"

Mum nods. "I remember. So does the living room carpet."

Angie grins. "That's the one. And you remember how she caked it on all over my face? I reckon we should dig out the photo and compare that to this." She gestures to her face, and giggles.

I want to laugh, too. Any other the she could've mentioned that damn eyeshadow, I would have been laughing while dodging reproachful looks from Mum and Dad, who haven't quite forgiven me for the carpet yet. But how can I laugh right now?

Mum shakes her head, and squeezes her eyes shut, while Dad starts to cry, and hugs Angie, stroking her hair.

My phone flashes—Tim's texted me, "Told Mr P what I saw Paul do. Gordon's here as well, so's Stef, and we've all got stuff to say about Paul. He's definitely suspended, maybe worse, which obviously would be better. How's Angie? I'm praying for her. And you." And then a string of x-kisses.

A moment later, there's a text from Gordon. "Tell her I'll be very, very cross with her indeed if she isn't fine, considering." Lots of heart emojis, true to form, and after that an even bigger string of x-kisses.

I tut, shaking my head at Gordon's cheek, and then show my phone to Angie, who laughs.

"I'll tell him you'll be his absolute fave, then," I sign, texting Gordon to say, "She's sitting up and making awful jokes."

"That's my girl!!!" Gordon replies, "Give her a big hug from me, and also lots of love."

Char reads the text over my shoulder. "Awww, nice Gordon," she signs, leaning over me to sign "nice" on my chin, rather than hers.

Angie and Mum and Dad are in the middle of a conversation when I look up.

"I think it might be best if you get away from Chase Valley this weekend," Mum signs to Angie, but she's looking at me out of the corner of her eye. It's just her body and face that are facing Angie. Her gaze is fixed on me, and I wonder how long it's been that way.

Angie nods, wincing slightly at the pain in her neck, and the corner of her mouth flickers. "Sure, I've been wanting to go to the Maldives for a while. Are we talking private jet, or what?"

Dad rubs Angie's shoulder, the papery fabric of her hospital gown crumpling under his gentle hand. "Not your birthday quite yet, sweetheart," he signs, grinning.

Angie signs tears, and then asks, "Can Etta come with me? Could we go to Scotland, to stay with Auntie Ren?"

Mum beams at her. "I can't make any promises, because they might be busy, of course, at such short notice, but I'll text Auntie Ren and ask if they can take you. And of course Etta should come along if she wants to." Now she turns to me, and grins, eyebrows slightly raised in a question.

I know exactly what she's asking, without having to ask her myself, and so I nod.

Why wouldn't I want to go and see Alex and Gina? They're absolute Gs, both of them, and I'm not just saying that because Gina's name starts with one.

The cousins I share with Gordon. And Paul. But, mercifully, they're a lot more like Gordon, maybe even a little bit better.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The hospital keeps Angie in overnight for observation, and won't let her go home the next day, either.

Right around half past one, her blood pressure drops through the floor, and she vomits over the edge of her bed, Mum tells me later that afternoon.

The doctors looked her over and found nothing scary, and just said it was one of those things, but they wanted to be on the safe side, and so Angie stayed in hospital until Friday afternoon, right around the last bell of the school day.

By the time I'm home, Mum's gone to pick her up from the hospital, and Dad's still at work, so I pack my rucky, and start packing one for Angie as well.

Getting through two school days as the sister of the girl who got her face kicked in (which is the rumour, not the truth) would be a lot more difficult if I weren't Deaf. I got to about ten o'clock the day after the attack, and switched off my hearing aid.

"Oh, I think the batteries have run out," I say ostentatiously, so that all the hearing kids do what they think they do best. Hear me. Listen to me. Stop asking me all these fucking questions, and, instead, have some sodding manners.

Ah, wishful thinking is lovely, isn't it?

If it weren't for Tim, I'd probably have changed my name to Shinkicker McStab by the time the bell went for end of Friday lessons. Well. Tim and Char. But Char only because she's done all the kicking for me.

Author of two dozen bruises. My mate. What a babe.

And Tim’s kept my mind on other things, not so much away from Angie, but more about what we’ll be getting up to this weekend.

“Could I maybe come up and see you?” he asks, “We could meet for coffee if you like. My treat.” He’s fingerspelling pretty much everything, which in anyone else would probably annoy me quite a bit, but he’s sitting so that I can see his hands clearly, and his handshapes are precise and easy to read. It’s kind of like getting a message in Morse code: not the best way of communicating, but fine in a pinch, and sometimes quite fun.

Like now. There’s something conspiratorial about it, almost like we’re planning to go for coffee in secret. Tim keeps glancing over his shoulder, and then grinning a little as he turns back. He’s obviously trying to make sure someone isn’t watching what he’s saying--someone specific--but I’m not sure who.

I smile at him. “I think that might be nice, yeah,” I sign, mouthing along so that he can understand, but not voicing, because… because? “Maybe on Sunday afternoon? Then we could walk back to Chase Valley together in the evening?”

Tim squeezes his eyes shut, and puts his chin up, like a cat wanting scratches between the ears. “Brilliant!” he signs, using the actual BSL, fists with thumbs up cycling around his head.

I stifle a giggle, but apparently I’m not quiet enough about it to avoid Char and her sneaky ears.

“Timberley-Bimberley!” she exclaims, signing along, “Are you making Etta giggle?!” Her eyes are open wider than I’ve ever seen them. Stretched, like in that Hilaire Belloc poem. “Explain yourself, young man!”

Tim looks baffled, and shakes his head slowly, eyes round, top teeth worrying at his lower lip. “I don’t know. Um… Was it something I said?” he asks, signing “Sorry,” at the end of it. “Sorry I can’t sign that much yet,” he adds in slow BSL.

“Your signing space is so high!” I exclaim, still giggling. Taking a gentle hold of his hands, I shape them into the same thumbs-up form as before. “May I?”

He nods, and grins, watching me intently as I cycle his fists in front of his chest.

“This is how most Deaf people do it,” I explain, “There’s, like, different accents in sign languages, and hearing people tend to have quite a high signing space, so, like… up around their heads?”

Char starts posing, framing her face with flattened hands--top and bottom, left and right, top and bottom, left and right, work it, baby, yes, the camera loves you--and pouting like she’s on a billboard.

I snort with laughter. “Kind of like that,” I say, gesturing to her, “But, like… very slightly less ridiculous.” I raise just one eyebrow, and lean towards Tim very slightly. “Only slightly,” I whisper, giggling again, as Tim laughs, too.

“So you sign more around your chest, that sort of height?” he asks.

“Chest, top of my tummy, yeah, pretty much,” I reply, grinning, “It’s not the most important thing--you want to make sure your facial expressions are right, first and foremost--but if you don’t want people to giggle at you...” I nod towards his chest.

Char leans towards me, her left eyebrow raised so high that it’s even pointy in the middle, her right so low it almost covers her eye. “Holding hands with Timble, are we?” she signs, winking rapidly.

“You’re not,” I reply in English.

Tim looks from me to Char and back again, and laughs. “What’s she not?”

I take it as an opportunity to teach him some new signs, but voice along, so that there can be no doubt. “Subtle, half as funny as she thinks she is, big or clever.”

Char feigns horror. “Am I not beautiful, either?”

I drop Tim’s hands, and wrap my arms around her, kissing her on the forehead. “You are very beautiful, and kind, too, and that is why you are my favourite.”

“I’m big, though,” Char signs, “Big and strong.”

“Funsize,” I tell her, “Like a little packet of Haribo on someone’s birthday.”

Tim bursts out laughing. "She is at that."

"I'm a birthday treat," Char says, grinning cutely, and resting her chin on the backs of her hands.

"And a snack," Stefan says, leaning over Char's shoulder out of nowhere, and sticking a kiss to her cheek.

And then he looks at the front of the room, and I look where he's looking.

Mr Mayes is standing at the front of the classroom, arms folded, shaking his head slowly from side to side. He raises one eyebrow.

Stefan turns pink, and shuffles awkwardly—sheepishly—back to his desk.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

After school, I pop up the road to Char's place, pull my eraser out of my pencil case, and throw it at her bedroom window, again and again, until she opens it, and pokes her head out.

Just for shits and giggles, I lob it up again, and it bounces off her forehead.

She glared at me. "Come up so I can kill you for that, you little bastard. The door's open, and I'm not coming down to answer it without my trousers on."

"Why aren't your trousers on in the first place?!"

"Oh, do you want to know?" she asks, grinning brightly.

I pause. Think about what she might say. Abruptly reconsider. "Not in any level of detail, no. Put your bottom away, I'm coming up."

"Delicious," Char signs.

Luckily, by the time I get up to her room, Char is wearing trousers, and she’s sat so calmly on her neatly-made bed, that it occurs to me she might just have been winding me up.

“My wee darling,” she signs, getting up onto her knees so that she can hug me. “Let’s get painty.” She pulls away, grins, and signs it again, as if I might not have guessed it from the letters she traced into the side of my neck with her index fingertip.

Actually, I didn’t. I was too busy shuddering. I trace, “Ew,” into the side of her neck, and shake my head at her, like a disapproving aunt.

“You’re right,” she signs, “We should paint pretty pictures on canvasses, not on each other’s necks.”

“Quite so,” I reply, “Vampire Manet.”

“Ah, don’t worry, sweetheart,” Char signs, winking at me so that I’m not reassured at all, “I won’t be the one biting your neck.”

“You say that like you think someone else will be,” I say, digging my paintbox out of my schoolbag.

From the triumphant grin on her face, I know Char has waited especially for me to turn around, rather than sign into the mirror, “Tim is a hungry boy. I can see it in his eyes.”

“What?” I can’t help but laugh. “If he’s hungry, he’ll go to the canteen. He’s not gonna start biting people, least of all me. Least of all on the neck, I mean, what the Hell?” I set my paints down on Char’s desk, and rummage through my bag for my brushes and my watercolour pad.

“Oh, I think he’s hungry for you, my little birdy,” Char signs, giggling, “Thinks you’re a right snack, I reckon.”

“Oh, yeah? Has he said anything?” I ask, raising just one eyebrow, and crossing my arms lightly over my chest. I’ve got her now, I have.

Char taps her fingertip against her nose. “He’s not had to say anything. Didn’t you notice how hard he was trying to sign for you, today in class? Have you seen him sign that much of a conversation before?”

I think about his painstaking fingerspelling, and how he even used a few actual word signs. Quite a lot, actually. More than you’d call a few. More than usual. “I guess I haven’t. Why?”

“Because he must be learning, and I’m certainly not teaching him. I asked Gordon, and he’s not teaching Tim, either. I’ve barely seen him talk to Angie--except when you’re around--because she’s in Year Nine! Why would they be chatting? But they would be chatting, if she were teaching him BSL for you.”

“Yeah, but, if Angie were teaching hi, she’d have made sure he kept his signing space low,” I point out, “And, as you say, they don’t talk much. Not enough.”

Char grins. “That’s exactly my point. I don’t think anyone’s teaching him. I think he’s teaching himself.”

I swallow hard, completely involuntarily, unexpectedly, even. “But that’s so much work!” I blunder.

“I know!” Char signs, “And, you now, between that and all his Bible study, and school, and homework, I’m surprised he has any time to--” She winks as she sets up her easel, ““Pray,” if you catch my drift.”

Shaking my head slowly, I mouth that I don’t.

“Yeah, you do!” Char replies, laughing, “Everyone does it!“ She pauses. Peers at me. “It makes you go blind, apparently.” And she pushes her glasses up te bridge of her nose, wiggling her eyebrows ostentatiously.

And then, in half a second, I realise what she’s implying, and yelp like I’ve trapped my finger in a socket. “What the Hell, Char?! No! That’s gross! And not true, anyway!”

“How do you know?” she asks, with a lascivious smirk.

“Well, how do you know?!” I retort, shuddering hard. “Oh, my God, that’s just… ew! No! I don’t want to think of that! Christ on the cross, Char! Ew!” My face is on fire, and I grimace. “God, I must be so red.”

“Nah, you’re fine,” Char sins, as soon as as she’s gently prised my hands off my face. “Oh, mate, I’m sorry. I was just teasing you. But I took it too far. I’m sorry. Are you OK?”

“Just squicked!” I reply, rubbing my palms up and down my biceps, as I blink hard. “Please don’t talk about wanking again,” I mumble, “Especially not if it’s, “Oh, Etta, someone’s thinking of you while they do it.””

“I’m sorry, sweetie,” Char signs, holding her arms open for me. “Do you want a hug?”

I nod, and snuggle into her shoulder for a moment, breathing in her perfume. It’s a very Char smell, spicy and warm, and achingly familiar in a way that makes you feel homesick, until she’s holding you, and you remember that she’s right there. She does good hugs, does Char, tight hugs, so firm that I sometimes think I can feel my ribs flexing. But I never worry that they’ll break, not when Char’s hugging me. She always makes sure to crush me carefully.

And that is her special charm.

“Do you think you might ask Tim out, though?” Char asks, once we’ve pulled apart, “Seriously. I think he quite fancies you.”

I shake my head hopelessly. “I don’t know. I don’t know how I feel about him. Or how I’d feel if he turned out actually to like me like that.”

“Well, give it a go,” Char signs, “Ask him on a date or something, or ask him over, maybe. See how it goes. Have that conversation with him.” She wiggles her shoulder, and then wiggles her eyebrows. “Make out a bit, perhaps. Maybe something will click.”

I wrinkle my nose. “Not sure how I’ll know if something clicks, honey. I tap my ears, and grin. “And, in any case, I don’t know if I want anything to--” And I use some very sarky finger-quotes, “--“click,” as you put it.” I shudder. “Not with Angie in and out of my room. And, besides, we’ve already got plans. We’re going to the tearooms in Kirk Yetholm, this weekend.”

Char claps her hands, and widens her big brown eyes in excitement. “Oh, my goodness, you’re going on a date?!”

I shake my head. “No, no, it’s just a little outing. As friends. You’re welcome to come along, if you want.”

“I wouldn’t dream of it,” Char signs, “This is for you and Timble to do on your own. Or together, rather. But not with me, and not with anyone else. Just the two of you. In fact, why not make it into a date? Text him now, and ask if it can be.” She nods towards my schoolbag, where my phone’s been all day.

“Oh, my goodness, no!” I exclaim, feeling my cheeks turn scarlet. “I can’t ask him out by text!”

“I asked Stef out by text,” she replies calmly, “It’s nothing like the faux pas you’re thinking, honey, I promise.”

I wrinkle my nose. “I wouldn’t know what to say, though.”

“Well, you don’t have to say it, if you don’t want to,” Char signs, “You shouldn’t go on dates with people if you don’t want to go on dates with them. Only do it if you want to.”

“I...” I stare at my bag, where it sits, slumped like a ragdoll, in the corner of Char’s room, and chew my lip. “I think I do want to. But… I don’t know how. How to say it. How to phrase it. If I should ask at all.”

Char smiles, and rubs my shoulders. “Would it help if I did it, maybe?”

“Maybe...” I pause for a moment, and then I nod. “Yeah, I think so. Could you?” I ask, digging through my bag, pulling out my phone, and holding it out to her. “Don’t say anything dodgy, though, will you? I’m trusting you.”

“Oh, it’s OK, I won’t write anything that’ll sound like I wrote it,” Char promises me, “It’ll be just as if it really did come from you. But, obviously, like, less nervous.” She smiles, and hugs me again. “How’s this?” she asks, showing me what she’s written.

““Just wondering how you feel about our coffee meet being a coffee date?”” I read, furrowing my brow. My stomach vibrates, and Char giggles.

“Even the mention of coffee gets your tummy growling!” she signs, “That’s, like, Gordon levels of caffeine dependency!”

I shrug. “More of it comes from tea than coffee, but, sure.” I grin, take a deep breath, and then blow it out through pursed lips. “Send it, then, quickly, before I panic and change my mind.”

She presses “Send,” and hands my phone back to me with a bright grin. “All done!” she signs, opening up her sketchbook, and sitting down on the edge of her bed.

I know that if I don’t look at something else right now, I won’t be able to stop staring at my phone until something--anything--comes through from Tim.

So I peer over Char’s shoulder, and see the slim figure of a woman in a field of lavender, yellow dress flowing behind her as she walks through the stalks of purple flowers. The figure has long, brunette hair, and I think for a moment that it must be a self-portrait, but then Char picks up a brush and dips it into a half-pan of rose doré, dabbles it into a small puddle of water on her palette, and thins the bright gold-red down to the finest, wispiest pink. And she starts to brush it up the woman’s arm, colouring her skin a pale apricot, a far cry from Char’s olive skin.

“Who’s that?” I ask, resting my chin on Char’s shoulder and putting the tip of my nose gently against her cheek as I stare at her temples.

She stifles a laugh, clinging desperately to a straight face, and leans awkwardly away from me. “Your nose is cold!” she scolds me, wagging her finger in my face. “It’s Ffion.”

“It’s gorgeous,” I whisper, grinning, “Seems like someone’s got a little bit of a crush!”

I’m just teasing her, really. I don’t expect to be right, and I don’t think I am, but then she turns pink, a flush of rose madder blooming under her skin, and I realise I’ve said the wrong thing. “Shit, honey, I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to… I’m sorry.”

But she smiles. “It’s fine. It’s only a little crush, and Stef knows. And Stef feels the same way, actually, which makes for some absolute comedy gold on our dates. Every time Ffion features in our conversations, we start making fun of each other for crushing on her. So it’s no big deal. You know I’m bi, right?”

I nod, and hug her. “Fun-size bi,” I sign as I pull away.

“Sweet, crackly, and easy to find in the supermarket Confectionery aisle, yes.”

And then my phone starts flashing, and I leap to grab it and read the text before Char can see it.

“You have used up your monthly allowance of 500 free texts,” it says, “Your remaining credit is £12.93 and will be used for--”

I stop reading, and shake my head. “It’s not him. It’s from my good friend, the phone company.” But then I spot the notification I’ve missed, the notification that must have come in when I couldn’t see my phone. Maybe it came in when I had my nose jammed in Char’s ear. Maybe not. Anyway, I open it up.

I open it up, and I see it’s from Tim, and I see that he’s written, “Sure thing!”

And I blink hard, because I don’t know how to respond to it. Because I don’t know if it’s good news or bad news. Because I don’t know what this date is supposed to entail. Wordless, I turn my phone around, so that Char can see it.

She poses like Mo Farah winning a race. “Get it, girl!” she signs, shimmying her shoulders. “Have you thought about what you’re going to wear yet?”

I burst out laughing. “I’ll be wearing whatever I put on in the morning,” I reply, “I’m staying at Gina’s, not in the back room of a Jack Wills!”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When Mum drops me and Angie off at Gina’s, it’s late in the evening, almost sunset, and the streetlights are coming on.

But the lights in Gina’s house are already on, and, as we pull up outside, two silhouette-figures disappear from the upstairs windows, and reappear a moment later in the frosted glass of the Maireads’ front door.

“Be good, girls,” Mum signs, kissing us each on the cheek, and ruffling our hair, “I’m going to come in and have a cup of tea with Auntie Renate, and then I’ll go home...” She grins. “Unless you’re extremely desperate to get rid of me!”

“Oh, Mummy, no!” Angie protests, “Stay as long as you want! Let Dad wonder if the wolves might have got you at last.”

“Ooh, now, that would be a weekend to remember,” Mum signs. She straightens her T-shirt ostentatiously, showing off the screen-printed wolf on the front. It was a birthday present from Char’s Mum (who designed it herself), two-and-a-half years ago.

Chapter 31: Prophet: Etta
Chapter Text
Gina and Alex run out to the front gate as soon as we get out of the car, meeting Angie with a flurry of questions (in BSL, of course. Auntie Renate and Uncle Don raised them bilingual).

“Are you OK? How are you feeling? Do you want a cup of tea? Can I carry your bag in for you?” The last two are directed at me as well, but then there’s another one directed at Angie, coming from them both at once: “You know Paul’s on the shit list now, right?”

Angie nods, and smiles weakly, as though she’s very, very tired. I guess she is--tired of questions about Paul--from the way she turned her phone off earlier, and the expression on her face as she scrolled through her seventy missed calls just a moment before.

“No more about him,” Alex signs, because, apparently, he can read Angie’s mind and mine, “What kind of tea will you be wanting? And we’ve stocked up on biscuits, too, don’t worry.”

Angie hugs him. “Best cousins ever,” she signs. “Come on, let’s go in.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

My phone starts vibrating just as I’m getting into bed, and I pick up the video-call hurriedly.

“Hey, honey,” Gordon signs, “How’s things?”

I beam at him. “Guess who’s in Kirk Yetholm!” Turning around slowly on the spot, I show him the Maireads’ living room, where Gina, Angie and Alex are sitting on their sleeping bags, the four of our heads together, bodies like a cross, or the sails of a windmill.

Gina looks up from her laptop, and waves. “Gordon!” she signs, “How are you?”

He grimaces. “Ah, Gina, my dear, I’ve been better, I’ve been better. If you ask me, I reckon shit’s about to hit the fan at home. Uh… so… I got my Dad to come over, and got him and Mum to sit down in the living room… and I came out to them. And kind of told them what happened at the lake. Told them what’s been happening at school.”

“Oh, shit, sweetie,” I sign, eyes big. I scramble to get on the floor, and put my phone on the coffee table, so that all four of us can see the screen. See what he says next.

“And, uh...” He breaks off, and laughs sharply. “Surprise, surprise, my Dad was more upset by my being gay--nice little gerund there, “my being gay”--than by Chris’ beating me up. Or trying to kill me. So, uh...” He rubs the heel of his hand through his hair, and raises his eyebrows. “Yikes, I think. “Yikes” is about the right word.””

“So you told them everything?” Angie asks.

Gordon shakes his head. “Luckily I was sensible enough to keep quiet about me and Soph going after Chris, but, then again, I didn’t really get the chance. It was all like, “Mum, Dad, I’m gay. I came out to my friends, and Chris tried to drown me, and that’s why I’ve been so stressed recently.” And then Dad was like, “What the Hell? Why didn’t you tell us sooner? You’re gay?! How did this happen?!” like it was something that had happened on the Sims. You know, when you think you’ve paused it, and you walk away for five minutes to go toilet, right? And then when you come back, everyone’s pregnant and the house is on fire. And, like, one of your kids is suddenly gay.”

“Well, at least nobody’s pregnant,” I point out.

“Yeah, I mean, the house isn’t on fire, either,” Gordon signs, “But I feel like it’s only a matter of time, you know?” He lifts the sash window for a moment, sticks his head out, and grimaces again. “Yep, they’re still yelling at each other.”

“You can hear them out of the window, but not in your room?” Alex signs, eyebrows raised, “What are they doing, yelling at each other in the street?”

“Mercifully, no,” Gordon replies, pulling the window shut, and shaking his head disapprovingly at the glass. “They’re yelling at each other in the kitchen. But they might as well be yelling at each other in the street. You can hear it outside.”

“Isn’t your kitchen at the back of the house?” Gina frowns.

“Correct! But at least they’re yelling at each other, not at me! I took my chances and climbed out the window, went over to Scott’s.” He turns the camera around, so that we can see Scott.

He’s perched on the edge of his bed, tapping the keys of his saxophone, but holding the mouthpiece over his shoulder. The instrument looks like a gilded swan, carried out to a Tudor feast. Scott looks up, grins, and holds up two peace signs, then signs, “Barbecue!” as he swoops his hands down to waist-height, and flips them over.

I laugh. “Scott, honey?” I say, “You know you’re signing “barbecue,” right?”

“What?” Scott stares at his hands, and repeats the sign, “Barbecue. Barbecue.” He frowns, and then scowls at Gordon. “You told me this was “bi”, you absolute scoundrel!” He shakes his head, and starts fingerspelling. “I’m bi. I wanted to come out to you.”

“Oh, nice!” I sign, grinning at him, “That’s so cool! “Bi” is with just the one hand. With both hands, it’s “barbecue.” It’s confusing, I know. But bear with the bear who can’t bear being bare--English is even bloody worse. So, are you two...” I wiggle my shoulders in Char fashion. “An item? A thing?”

“We’re a whole thing!” Gordon signs, ducking in front of the camera, then sitting down next to Scott on the bed. “Figured we should tell you before it gets to be common knowledge. I reckon it’s only a tiny matter of time before my Mum works out where I am, and draws her own conclusions. And then it will be all around the village!”

“Oh, sheesh, darling, are you OK?” My heart is racing, and I can feel a thickness spreading through my ears, like I’ve pushed my hearing aid in too far, impossibly far, and somehow into both my ears. “Do you want me to come back?”

Gordon shakes his head. “Don’t worry, honey. I’m fine. I’ve got my little knifey here.” He pulls a Swiss army knife out of his shirt pocket, and poses with it, like a makeup vlogger posing with a tube of mascara.

Scott grabs it out of his hand, and scolds him, shaking his head in exasperation. “This boy!” he signs, giving Gordon a grumpy side-eye. “Sorry, I won’t be a minute. Keep Gordon on the line.” He gets off the bed, and closes the door behind him, leaving Gordon sheepish in the bedroom.

“I tell you, every time I get hold of a new weapon, there’s some other weapon trying to take it off me. Fuck’s sake.” Gordon rolls his eyes, and shakes his head. “First Scott, then Tetty, then Scott again. They’ll confiscate my gun next.”

“You have a gun?!” All four of us repeat at once, family resemblance showing in our matching horrified expressions.

“Of course not!” Gordon signs, “No, of course not. That was a joke. Bloody Hell, I’ve got to draw the line somewhere.”

“And, uh...” Alex raises an eyebrow. “You didn’t think knives should be on the “No, of course not,” side of that line?”

Gordon shakes his head. “You don’t put a knife in your pocket hoping you’ll have to use it. But it’s there if you need to. It’s reassuring. And it’s a quick fix in a fight. One jab, and, suddenly, you’re not being attacked anymore.” He shrugs. “I feel a lot safer with a knife in my pocket than without.”

Gina sighs. “Honey, you’re actually more likely to be stabbed if you carry a knife. Not to mention, you could get into a lot of trouble if you get caught. If you’re worried about being attacked...” Her eyes fill with tears, and her throat twitches as she swallows hard. “If you’re worried about being attacked, take a self-defence class. Read up on how to protect yourself without a weapon. That’s the best plan for staying safe.”

“There’s not time!” Gordon protests, “I’m under threat now!”

Angie reaches out and touches the screen, as if she might reach through it and touch Gordon’s face. “Please be careful,” she signs, “It would break so many hearts if something happened to you.”

“Something’s already happened,” Gordon replies, smiling sadly, “I’m just trying to make sure nothing else happens. I’m OK. I promise.”

Scott comes back into his room, and shuts the door behind him. He says something to Gordon, eyes sad, jaw tight. “Hi,” he waves to the camera.

“Where did you put it?” Gordon signs as he speaks.

But Scott just shakes his head, and Gordon just rolls his eyes.

“If you’re trying to avoid trouble with your parents, I’d recommend you avoid carrying weapons,” Alex signs, “And… Are you OK? Like, are you gonna be OK, now that your Mum and Dad know? They’re not gonna be horrible about it, are they?”

“Alex, mate, you’ve known my Mum your whole life. It’s basically her brand to be horrible about things, even if they’re not bad, just because they involve. Or Tetty. Or Jake! About the only person she doesn’t mutter about is Paul.” He winces, and shakes his head. “But let’s not talk about that ugly little bastard. What are you doing this weekend?”

I grin. “Staying with the fam in Scotch-land,” I reply, “And then I’m seeing Tim for coffee on Sunday.”

“Ooh.” Gordon winks. “How delicious.”

“It’s just coffee.”

“That’s what I mean,” Gordon replies. He smiles at me sweetly. “What did you think I meant?”

I give him the finger. “Do you want to go, mate?”

“No!” Scott signs, putting Gordon in a headlock. “Nobody is “going”!”

“Oh, but, yeah, speaking of “going”, I think maybe we should,” I sign, “Because it’s getting kind of late, and I don’t want to waste the whole weekend, trying to sleep off an all-nighter. Not all of us--” I break off, overwhelmed by the urge to yawn. “Ooh! Not all of us are night owls.”

“Call me an owl one more fucking time, darling,” Gordon signs. And then he swats Scott softly in the arm. “Stop hooting, babe, you’ll only encourage her.” He waves at the camera. “Night, all.” And then he hangs up.

Gina turns to look at me as I switch off my phone, and put it back on the coffee table, to charge overnight.

“Should I be worried about him?” she asks me, just me, as Angie and Alex are settling down to sleep. “About Gordon? About both of them?”

I chew my lip, not knowing what to tell her.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When I wake up in the morning, it’s not to early daylight, but to the faint, blueish glow coming from a computer screen. I rub my eyes, and sit up, to see Gina sat at the dining table, typing away at her laptop, with her headphones in.

I shuffle out of my sleeping bag and pad across the carpet in my fluffy bed-socks, and watch her writing for several minutes.

She writes so fast, filling a whole page of A4, and pushing her word count from under three hundred to over nine hundred in the time I watch alone. I wonder how long she’s been writing this morning, how long she spends writing every day. The word count’s no indicator. She might have written something else before whatever she’s writing now.

What is she writing now? I squint, trying to find a way into a text whose beginning I can’t see, by a writer whose thoughts I can’t see. I think she’s writing a response to a letter, or an essay of some kind. But the tone’s too casual for it to be an essay. Don’t essays use academic language? Third person? Passive voice?

Gina is writing, “If you’re worried your school isn’t making sex education readily available to all students, you can do your own research on sites like Scarleteen, set up to help students in the USA learn about preventing pregnancy, the spread of STIs, and LGBT issues, all subjects commonly forbidden by conservative school boards, who tend to push an abstinence-only approach.”

There’s something about the style of writing that I recognise, but I can’t work it out. Is she maybe taking inspiration from an author we’ve both read? I keep reading over her shoulder.

“Scarleteen is a great source of reassurance for anyone who’s concerned their feelings might not be “normal”, or for anyone who’s worried about their sexual health. I really can’t recommend it enough, even for readers outside the USA.”

Why does Gina’s writing read like I’ve read it before? Have I read it before?

“The writers use nice, simple language, and explain things thoroughly, never assuming a basic knowledge, beyond, of course, the ability to read and use the internet.”

Hang on.

“I hope I’ve helped! And do please let me know if there’s anything else I can do.”

“And do please let me know if there’s anything else I can do.” I think I’ve seen that phrase more times in the last month than I’ve seen my own front door. Several times every evening, in fact, and always in the same place.

Always in the same place. Always at the end of answers on the Rainbow Room.

“You’re Iris?!” I exclaim, voicing involuntarily. I feel it in my throat as I sign. I flinch, knowing it must have been loud.

Gina jolts like she’s touched a live wire. She lurches forward in her chair. Ripping her earbuds out, she slams her laptop shut, and twists around to stare at me. “Etta?! Jesus Christ! How long have you been standing there?!”

“Long enough,” I reply, going into BSL, and then looking over my shoulder to be sure Alex and Angie haven’t woken up. They’re both still fast asleep.

“What did you see?” Gina demands, hands shaking. Her eyes are bigger than I’ve ever seen them, and they’re already tinged with a familiar pink, the very first hint of tears.

“I saw you writing… I think I saw you writing an article for the… for the Rainbow Room. Are you… Is it just you?”

Gina nods slowly. “You know the Rainbow Room?”

“We all do. Me, Angie, Gordon… Everyone in Chase Valley. Everyone in the GSA at Wooler Water, even some of the teachers. It’s kind of… It’s kind of our main source for LGBT stuff, you know? Everyone reads it. Angus McNicholas recommended it to Gordon and Scott, and then it spread from them to everyone else.”

Gina turns grey. “Angus… McNicholas?” she signs.

I nod. “Yeah, he’s a huge fan! It helped him come out to his parents, and it’s helped so many people at Wooler Water. Even some kids from really conservative families are reading it. I can’t tell you who, but--”

“Angus McNicholas reads the Rainbow Room,” Gina signs, apparently not having registered the rest of what I said. “Angus… Angus, whose family owns the tea-rooms. Angus, who works in the tea-rooms.”

“Yeah, Angus. You know him. He’s the older one, the one with the longer hair, kind of like an elf. Angus. Hangs around Gordon and Scott.”

Gina shakes her head. “No, no, I know which Angus you mean. It’s just...” She’s breathing too fast, dragging air into her heaving chest as she stares wildly around the room. “I see him most days! I usually go to the tea-rooms to write! Oh, fuck, he’s probably seen me working on it! He probably knows! Oh, my God, I didn’t know people round here knew about it. Most of my followers are in America. Readers generally, they’re in America! But… people here read it?”

“People here love it!” I reply, nodding vigorously, “Seriously, Gina, it’s amazing, what you do! You really run the whole site on your own?”

Gina nods. “Yeah, it’s… it’s kind of like my job. I make enough money from advertising revenue that...” She lifts her shoulders up to her ears, “I’ve been thinking about giving uni a miss, and just...” Now she nods towards her laptop. “Just focusing on my writing. Or… I mean, Mum wanted me to look at Publishing or Journalism, rather than English Literature, because it’s easier to find work with one of those than an English Lit degree, but...” She shakes her head. “I figure, if I can make a living off this, I can do what I want about university. Or decide not to go at all. Or maybe I’ll train as an interpreter, and do that part-time. I don’t know. I’m still thinking about it.”

“Holy shit, Gina, that’s amazing!” I pull out the chair next to hers, and sit down. “Wow! How long have you been running the site for? A year? A year-and-a-half?”

“Nearly two years,” Gina says, rubbing the top of her laptop. “I started it just after I started Sixth Form. And, uh...” She grimaces. “And now I’m waiting for my A’ Level results, and uh, you know… trying not to be sick every time I think about Results Day. Pretty standard, you know?”

“So, you don’t want to go to university… but you’re still worried about results?”

Gina nods, grinning sheepishly. “I know it’s fucking silly. But Mum and Dad made me apply to bunch of universities, and, like… whether or not I do go to university in the end, I want it to be because I’ve made a choice to go, or not go. I don’t want to be shut out of an opportunity because I screwed up my exams.” She shudders. “I’d never hear the end of it.”

“Can’t relate,” I sign, winking. Then I bite my lip. “Sorry. That was inappropriate.”

But, luckily, Gina just laughs. “Deaf Gain, right?” She hugs me almost tightly enough to leave bruises, and then pulls away. “Please don’t tell anyone,” she signs.

“Of course I won’t tell!” I promise her, “So… what universities did you pick?”

“Well, Oxford’s my first choice, and then Royal Holloway’s my second.”

My stomach drops, but I feign indifference. “Oh, so just the easy targets, then. No need to cram for those at all, no.”

Gina grins. “You get it, you get it.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Tim holds the door open for me as I step into the McNicholases’ tea-rooms ahead of him.

Something moves in the corner of the cafe, and it could be a dragon or a shadow or anything in between, but, for a moment, I’m looking for it, and, for a moment, I see Gina sitting there, hunched in front of her laptop, typing away at our lifeline. I catch myself wondering how many of us have gone up to Kirky for coffee or cake, and seen her working, without ever suspecting.

That’s clever with the pseudonym, though. Iris, the Greek Goddess of colour. By extension, the Greek Goddess of the rainbow, and all it encompasses. But, then, I’d expect nothing less than clever wordplay from Gina.

She’s not here today, though. She’s taken her laptop to the library in Town Yetholm, to work there. “Give you and your boyfriend some privacy,” she said.

“Go and find us a table,” he writes on his phone, “I’ll go and get us a menu each…” He pauses in his typing, looks up, grins, and then carries on, “Unless you already know what you’re having.”

I remember that this is supposed to be a date, and that Char and Stef always share their food with each other. Drinks, too, sometimes, so long as Char’s not doing something awful with a glass of wine and a bottle of milk.

(No, “grape milkshake surprise” was not a nice surprise. It wasn’t even a nice drink. (And, yes, Char was in disgrace for telling me it was a strawberry daiquiri, and passing her glass to me so that I could, “Have a fucking sip, babe.”))

When Char’s drinking something sensible, like peach iced tea, or gin and tonic, or just beer, she’s usually to be seen poking the straw into Stefan’s mouth while he screws up his face and pretends not to want a drink--”No, no, water only! I’m a healthy boy!”--until the temptation to laugh gets too much, and he has to open his mouth and have a (fucking) sip (babe). At least, that’s how it goes with the first sip. The following sips, he sneaks up behind Char, leans over her shoulder, and grabs the straw out of her mouth to have a drink when she’s least expecting it, to much roaring from the lady in question.

Char and Stef go on dates all the time. And they share snacks and drinks all the time. So, no doubt, they share drinks and snacks on dates, right? So, maybe Tim and I should get something to share? Right?

I crane my neck to look at the cakes displayed in glass domes along the counter. I can see lemon cake, chocolate cake, Victoria sponge, and--oh, my goodness, yes--carrot cake! Turning to Tim with a grin, I sign, “Carrot cake, please,” and whisper along, so that he can work out what the signs mean.

He grins right back. “Anything to drink?” He mimes a sip from a cup.

I put my little finger up, and tilt it beside my mouth, as if I’m lifting a teacup to my lips, but I blow out my cheeks. “A big pot of tea, please!”

“Ah, you read my mind!” Tim takes my hand, squeezes it for a moment, and then sidles up to the counter, talking to Angus’ brother.

There’s a small cluster of tables for two by a large, dark-wood bookshelf, and one of them sits right in a shaft of golden sunlight. I head for it, pop out a chair, and then sit in the other one.

My heart pounds as I wait for Tim to come over with the tea and cake (or cakes, I guess. I don’t know what he’ll be ordering), and I sit upright in my chair, back uncomfortably-straight, hands folded on the table, while my thumbs go mad.

What am I supposed to do on a date? Make out? Char talked about making out. Is Tim going to want to make out? Surely not on the first date… but what if he wants there to be a second? Or what if he does want to make out on the first date? Snog? I don’t know how I feel about all that stuff. I don’t even know how to explain that I don’t know how I feel.

My head spins, and I stop twiddling my thumbs abruptly, grip the edge of the table, and take deep breaths as slowly as I can, pursing my lips, exhaling gently and--hopefully--silently. The last thing I want is for people to notice that I’m having to work to stay calm.

Is this how Char felt, the first time she went on a date with Stef? How the bloody Hell did she do it without panicking and running off?

Tim returns after a few minutes, carrying a heavy-looking tray, laden with two plates of cake, a huge teapot, and two sets of cups and saucers, each with a little biscuit. He beams at me as he sits down, and my heart slows pace, which is a relief, to say the least. “Cake for you,” he signs, putting the tray down on the table between us, and angling it so that the carrot cake is nearer me.

“Thank you!” I sign, picking up a cake fork and breaking off a bit of cake with frosting on it. I lift it into the air, and hold it out to him. “For you!” I sign with my free hand.

Tim giggles. “If you’re sure!”

“Of course I’m sure!” I hold the fork as still as I can, so that he can eat the bit of cake off the tines.

He leans forward, still giggling--but trying really hard not to laugh--and closes his mouth over the cake. “Ooh, lovely!” he signs, and then he pulls away, to get the fork out of his mouth. Closing his eyes for a moment, he furrows his brow as if he might be thinking, and then seems to come to a conclusion. “When you can sign...” he ekes out, “You can talk… with your mouth… open!”

Was he figuring out the words? The syntax? That sentence was slow, like he was crawling through the language, but there was nothing wrong with it. His signing--at least for that sentence--was flawless. BSL word-order, not English.

I blink.

“Your BSL is getting really good,” I sign. I sign it slowly, so that he can follow along, but also… also, because I’m tied up, thinking about what Char said.

He really must be working hard to learn BSL, if he’s getting out complicated sentences like that already. And he’s remembered what I said about the signing space.

Tim turns pink, and he grins down at his slice of cake. “Lemon cake,” he signs, “Duncan says... Angus made it. Do you want to try some?” He looks up at me, and smiles again, and I feel as if someone’s helping me on with a jacket, or recommending me their favourite book.

I nod, smiling too, as a warm feeling spreads through my chest. It’s almost like a sip of tea.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

After an hour in the tea-rooms, Tim walks me back to Gina’s house, his arm linked through mine, his hoodie draped around my shoulders like a cape, because (as he puts it), “It’s a bit nippy.”

It smells clean, like simple laundry powder and the hallway of his house. Tim’s house has always had a lemony kind of smell to it; I think Mrs Brownlow was a fan of pot pourri, but I can’t think of the last time I saw any there. Maybe Tim and his Dad have gone over to scented candles, or those little electric diffusers. Maybe they haven’t needed to.

It’s not far from the tea-rooms to the Maireads’, and I could probably have walked it on my own without a hitch, but Tim said, “I’m not that keen to say goodbye,” and then gave me his hoodie to wear.

“Aren’t you cold?” I say, as we approach the Maireads’ street.

He shakes his head. “I’m very tall,” he signs, “Heat rises. It’s warmer up here.”

I splutter with laughter. “You’re not that much taller!” But I look up at him as I say it, and I realise that... Oh. He actually is that much taller. He’s about the same height as Scott (and I wonder, for a moment, if he knows about Scott, if he knows about Scott and Gordon), so he’s well over six foot.

He looks down at exactly the same moment I look up, and our eyes meet. We both stop walking in the middle of the road--a sleepy, leafy lane that sees maybe two cars in an hour--and unlink our arms. And we take hold of each other’s hands instead, and stare down at them, running thumbs over knuckles.

Our hands. We’re joined by our hands. Silence and stillness. Calm.

I raise my eyes, and go up onto my tiptoes, tilting my head to kiss him on the cheek. My own cheeks burn, and there’s my racing heart again. And a tight chest. And there’s Tim, blushing, and leaning down to kiss me back, properly.

On the lips.

And the kiss is so startling that I pull away as soon as his brush mine, as abruptly as if I’ve been stung by a wasp. I know, in the moment, that it’s an immediate realisation, but as soon as it’s a memory--just a second or two later, as I’m standing there, blinking, and wondering if it would be rude to drop Tim’s hands, or if I want to--it’s a slow dawning of understanding.

Something’s on my arm. Something’s pressing quite hard. Ow, ow, ow, that hurts! Oh, God, what is that?! Oh, God, wasp, wasp, save yourselves! Run for your life!

It’s exactly like being stung. Except that it doesn’t sting. But it does hurt, somewhere deep inside my chest, as I realise I’ve hurt him. Led him on. Asked him on a date when I know--or, at least, I know now--that I really don’t want to go on dates with him.

Or maybe I’m just having doubts. Stupid doubts. That’s probably normal for a first kiss, right? Like when you’re walking through the streets of a town you’ve never visited before, trying to follow directions someone wrote on a Post-It, knowing you’re probably fine, but never being certain. Always worrying you might be missing something, or that you might have taken a wrong turning.

I look up at him, and I think for a moment that he’s vibrating, but then I realise that it’s me, that I’m shaking, and that I haven’t let go of his hands, so he’s shaking, too. “I’m sorry,” I whisper, “I just… I just don’t think I want to kiss you again. Could I… could I maybe have a hug instead?”

“Of course!” Tim signs, “Have whatever you want!” He pauses. “And please don’t be sorry. I would never want to do anything you didn’t want me to.”

My heart slows a little, and I hold up my arms to drape them around his shoulders, as he wraps his around my waist, pulls me to him, and lifts me off my feet, so that the soles of my high-tops dangle six inches off the ground, and my chin is nestled against his collarbone.

And then he spins around on the spot, and my legs fly out like chairs on a chair-o-plane, and I can’t help but giggle, and I tighten my arms around his shoulders.

When he puts me down after about a minute of spinning on the spot, the world keeps spinning around me for a moment. There’s nothing of the jarring halt I felt after he kissed me. And I’m not shaking anymore. But I am still giggling. “Please can we do that instead of kissing from now on?” I ask, giddy, “Because that is fun!”

(“That” being swept off my feet, “that” being spun around, “that” feeling the way I expected kissing to feel. I must recommend it to Char, if she hasn’t done it already.)

“Of course!” Tim says, laughing.

Chapter 32: Calling: Tim
Chapter Text
I close my Bible and put it on the little crochet mat Mum made for it. Since she died, it’s been home to her photograph as well, one of her at a garden party at Sophie’s. She’s wearing a blue dress with tiny white flowers all over it, and she’s posing smartly, smiling in front of a rhododendron with cream blossoms. Dad took it, and gave it to me in a frame, the week after Mum died.

She used to like reading the Bible almost as much as I do. There’s just something about it that feels steadying, like coming home, and maybe that’s because she used to read it to me, or maybe it’s because I used to read it to her, but I know it’s something to do with her. Dad’s never quite understood it. For him, reading the Bible is like going to school; a means to an end, but not something to return to, and return to, and return to, “As if the meaning might have changed! All the words are still there, right where you left them, Tim!”

He says it now, and I look up, to see him standing in the doorway, grinning at me. He’s a skinny man, tall and skinny, which I guess is how I get my height. Not that Mum was short, and, of course, none of my aunts and uncles are short, but having Titans on both sides of the family might have been the reason I towered over my friends--and my cousins--from the first day of primary school.

“I know,” I say, as I always say, “I just like to check.” Strictly speaking, it’s not as much of a joke as it sounds. Sometimes, reading the Bible really does feel like I’m making sure it’s all still as I remember it.

Because sometimes it isn’t. Because sometimes, when I come back to a verse, it means something completely different to what it meant when I last read it. Things are clearer, somehow, like I’m looking at them through binoculars, instead of squinting into the distance, trying to decipher a blurry, shapeless mystery.

Dad steps into my room and puts his arm around my shoulder. “Go and do something else for a bit,” he says, “Have a little walk or something. You’ve barely been outside since you got back from Kirk Yetholm yesterday.”

“Ah, but I walked all the way there, and all the way back,” I point out, “And I’ve spent all today at school, so… you know… maybe I’ve been outside without you realising.”

He laughs. “I’m sure you have.” He looks around my room, and his eyes fall on my school bag “Have you caught up on your homework?”

“Of course.”

“Good lad,” he says, “Now, come and sit downstairs. I want to see you relaxing in the front room within ten minutes, or there’ll be trouble. I’m popping the kettle on. Do you want a cuppa tea?”

“Please,” I reply, picking up my BSL dictionary with the intention of learning twenty new signs--my daily goal--and moving to follow Dad out of my room.

But he turns around in the doorway and says, “Ah, no, you put that down. Watch telly or something.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I don’t watch telly, but I do settle on the sofa, and I do take out my phone, and open up the Rainbow Room. Unlike the Bible, the words change every day, usually several times, and there’s guaranteed to be something new to read.

Today, someone has written into the website, and Iris has written a response.

I read the letter first, just to have some idea of the background. Iris usually answers her letters--if Iris is a woman--with articles she’s written, so that, sometimes, you don’t have to read the letter first. Sometimes she doesn’t publish the letter at all, just puts a little note at the top of the article, saying, “This article was inspired by a question from one of my readers,” and then she puts the main question as the headline, and leaves the rest of the letter out.

But, today, Iris has published the letter as well, and, much as I often scroll past, to read the article, there’s something about this one that pulls me into reading it properly.

“Dear Iris,

“I don’t think I’m gay, but I don’t know if I’m straight or bi either. I’m a girl, I’ve just started dating a guy, and I don’t think I want to do anything couples do It’s not that I don’t want to spend time with him, and it’s not that I don’t like him a lot, because I do--there’s something about him that makes me want to see him every day, and go on adventures with him… but not dates. I don’t want to kiss him, I don’t want to sleep with him except maybe in the most literal sense--like taking naps--but I really, really like him, and there’s more to that feeling than I have in any of my other friendships. Even my best friend. With this guy, it’s like I want to be best friends with him, and then something else… but, if it’s not a romantic relationship, and it’s not a sexual thing (because I’ve never wanted either of those)... what is it?

“Please help. The last thing I want to do is upset him by being like, “Hey, I don’t want to date you,” when I really want to keep seeing him, but I’m freaking out, trying to understand what I’m feeling.

“Thank you so much.

“Love from Halp.”

“Oh, good luck Iris,” I mumble, chewing my lip, “That’s a tricky one.”

“What’s that, Timble?” Dad pokes his head around the living room door, “You’re not studying, are you?”

I lock my phone, and grab the TV remote. “No, no, I was just thinking about watching “Come Dine With Me”. But, like… it’s probably a bit late in the evening, isn’t it?”

Dad grins, and shrugs haplessly. “Tea’s ready in the kitchen. And there might be some biscuits in the tin, if you’re feeling peckish.”

“I’m fifteen. I’m always peckish,” I say, leaving my phone on the coffee table, and loping through to the kitchen, to pick up a lovely hot cup of a proper brew.

Dad makes good tea, always has done.

Mum--God love her--used to show the kettle a picture of a teabag, but only for a moment (nowhere near enough time for a proper look), and then administer four or five lashings of milk for every two lashings of “tea”. That was how she made it, because that was how she liked it, but I could never see the appeal, and always offered to make tea for everyone, if she offered to make tea for me and Dad. And then, quite suddenly, she wasn’t making tea for anyone, and she wasn’t drinking it, either. But I guess she’s got all the cups of tea she could possibly want now, just as she likes them.

I scoop up my mug of tea with a grin, and rummage through the cans and jars in the larder, to see if I can find the dented tin with a picture of the Queen on the lid. That’s where we keep the bicks, and--true to his word--Dad has refilled it. “Shortbread!” I hoot in triumph, picking out a handful, and shuffling them onto a plate. “Thankee, Papa.”

“Papa!” Dad repeats, chuckling, and shaking his head, “I’ll never understand you.”

I laugh. I think I’m quite easy to understand if you’ve ever met Gordon Benn, which, of course, Dad has, but, then again, understanding things is apparently quite subjective.

As soon as I’m back in the living room, I settle down on the sofa--my habitual perch on evenings when Dad wants me to be a normal teenager, and loll around--and go back to my phone, to see what Iris has written in response to Halp’s letter.

“Halp” strikes me as a good pseudonym for someone whose internal monologue seems to be screeching, “Haaaeeeellp!” as life rattles on like a rollercoaster, “Stop for a moment, I want to get off! Or at least know where this is going!” and, quite honestly, I can relate.

It’s occurred to me more than once that, if I do go into the priesthood, if I do take Holy Orders… I’m not going to be able to stay in a relationship with anyone indefinitely. Not if it’s romantic or sexual. But… I don’t think I would ever want to have sex with Etta… and, when she said she’d rather we not kiss again, part of me was… relieved?

So maybe I should pay attention to this article. It might be more relevant to me than anything else Iris has written so far.

“Dear Halp,” Iris writes,

“I know how it sounds, my telling you not to panic, my telling you to stay calm, but I’m going to do it anyway, because I think you’re seeing this whole situation as very stressful, and it doesn’t need to be.

“I think your first step should be to ask this guy how he feels about you. There’s just a chance he feels the same way, and that you can go on your merry way together, but you do need to ask him before you make any really big decisions. Don’t let his answer affect the choice you make, but do take it into account when you’re carrying your choice out. If he wants a relationship, you have every right--and, from your letter, every reason--to say you don’t want one, but if you care about him, presumably you’ll want to be careful not to hurt his feelings. Whatever you do, please don’t agree to a relationship just for the sake of sparing his feelings now; it will only make it more difficult, later on.”

I pause my reading for a moment, and swallow hard. So I should tell Etta that we can’t make this a long-term relationship, then, shouldn’t I? I’m about as sure I want to take Holy Orders as I’ve ever been of anything. How do you know if you’re having a calling? Is it a feeling of duties to be done, even when people around you are connecting you to your parishioner’s life? I see everything Father Matthew does for the community, and it’s like I feel hands on my back, pushing me to do the same.

“As to how you feel, I think I might be able to help you. If you’ve never heard of AVEN - the Asexuality Visibility and Education Network - then you might like to have a look at their website. If you’ve never felt romantic or sexual attraction to anyone, then you might be aromantic and/or asexual. Aromantic people don’t experience romantic attraction, and might call themselves “aro” for short. Asexual people don’t experience sexual attraction, and might call themselves “ace” for short. Not all aro people are ace, and not all ace people are aro; a person could be aromantic and gay sexually, or biromantic and ace, for example. If you can think of a combination of a romantic orientation and a sexual orientation, there’s probably someone in the world who feels that way.

“Your feelings about this guy sound--as you say--like friendship, but more intense. Have you ever heard of something called a quasiplationic partnership, or a QPP?” And she’s included a link to a dictionary definition of “QPP”, and another to a blog about aro ace people and QPPs. “It sounds a lot like what you’re describing! Might you want a quasiplatonic partnership, rather than a romantic or sexual relationship? They’re not just for aro people and ace people--anyone can have one--so have a look, and see what you think.

“Have a little think about whether that might apply to you--because having a label helps a lot of people feel more comfortable with themselves--and if you want to know more, check out the “aromantic” and “asexual” tags at the bottom of this post.

“I hope I’ve helped! And do please let me know if there’s anything else I can do.”

I stop scrolling, and stare for a long moment at the tags on the bottom of the post. I guess clicking through to all the posts tagged “asexual” might be a good place to learn more, but… why do I want to learn more?

My heart starts beating faster, and I feel slightly dizzy, but then I realise I’m sitting on my leg, and straighten it out, to see if that helps. Ow, pins and needles, work of actual Satan, ugh.

But I want to learn more. I want to educate myself. After all, if I’m going to be a pastor, or a priest, or… well, I suppose I might even teach, or go into chaplaincy… then I’ll be talking to people from all kinds of backgrounds, all kinds of communities. Maybe even ace and aro people. I should have a look, shouldn’t I? So that I can help.

To be honest, I’m not sure reading tags is the best place to start. AVEN sounds like an official kind of site. I think I’ll start there.

Right there on the first page is a caveat: asexuality, according to AVEN is the lack of desire for sex; it’s nothing to do with celibacy, which is a conscious decision not to have sex. Well, that’s… doesn’t it amount to something similar? I frown, and read the front page again. It’s two tracks leading to the same train station, isn’t it?

Maybe I haven’t read enough to understand it properly. I click further, and take a mouthful of tea while I wait for the page to load. And, as I drink, my eyes catch the crucifix above the bay window, and my mind returns to taking Holy Orders.

I’ve been thinking about it a lot recently, and I don’t know if it’s just because I’m getting to the age where, yeah, I might be thinking about university, or taking an apprenticeship, or if it’s just because of everything that’s been happening in Chase Valley in the last month or so.

What might have happened to Lena if she hadn’t been able to go to Father Matthew for help? What might have happened if Father Matthew had been there, but not known how to help her? Or--worse still, so much worse--not wanted to help her? Maybe she’d have come to one of us for help. But who knows? I’m just glad we don’t have to find out.

In yesterday’s sermon, Father Matthews talked about tolerance and love, and the importance of kindness, and he said a lot about how some people forget to be kind. Some people forget to help other people, forget to watch out for their friends, for their neighbours. And I don’t ever want to forget. I don’t ever want to let other people forget, either. And I don’t ever want other people to forget that I’m here to help.

So I keep reading. And I click through to the “Overview” section, which explains the difference between feeling sexual attraction and not feeling it… and I had no idea until now that I… have never actually felt it. I’ve always just kind of assumed that nobody really cared about sex, but… apparently… most people do, at least a bit?

Well, no judgement, but I guess that explains Char. She’s the one who’s like most people (at least, in that way), the only difference between her and everyone else being that she talks about it. And, to be honest, she seems a whole lot more relaxed about the concept of sex than most people, so… maybe that’s actually healthier. She certainly seems happier than most people.

But… most people--even if they don’t talk about sex--tend to like the idea of it. So… am I not like most people? Am I more like Halp than Iris? Does that make me asexual?

I go back to the first page, and reread the bit about celibacy being different. Celibacy is “a conscious decision” to abstain from sex. That… to me, at least… implies that you’re celibate if you avoid having sex, even though you want it. It’s like abstaining from certain foods, even though you know they’re nice--because you’ve heard about them, and want to try, or maybe you’ve even tried before, and liked it--because there’s a higher power telling you to abstain.

If I take Holy Orders, I’ll have to take a vow of celibacy, or more accurately, a vow of chastity, to become a priest. No marriage. No sex. I’ve always known that, ever since I’ve known I wanted to be a priest. But the celibacy part never occurred to me until Scott and Lena started teasing me about it, one evening, after dinner at Auntie Kendra and Uncle Josef’s.

“Oh, you’re giving up a lot!” Lena exclaimed, winking at me as soon as she was sure none of our parents were about. I think we must have been twelve or thirteen, because we were coming up to Confirmation, but weren’t there yet, and so, of course, sex was the funniest thing anyone could mention.

But I hadn’t really thought about it, except as a joke, so I just frowned. “What do you mean?”

“Priests, Timmy, priests can’t fuck,” Lena said, eyes bright with the thrill of the f-word, which has long since worn off for everyone except Gordon. “If you go into the Church, you’ll have to be--” And she turned such a bright pink as she tried and failed to stifle her giggle that I can still point out the exact shade in a Dulux catalogue, “You’ll have to be chaste!”

“Oh, is that why they’re called chastity belts?” Scott said, staring at the front room fireplace as if he’d never realised this before.

Lena burst out laughing. “Yeah! And you’ll basically have to wear one, Tim! Well, not literally, obviously, probably, but, you know...” She collapsed into wheezes of mirth, doubled over on the rug, bashing her fist against the pile.

Scott just kept staring into the fireplace for a moment, and then turned to look at me. “Is that true? You can’t… you know...”

I nodded. “No sex, no marriage, no children… celibacy. Chastity, rather, because “celibacy” means no sex outside marriage, but “chastity” means none at all.”

“Because you’ll never get married,” Scott said slowly, furrowing his brow. “So… you’re OK with that? It seems like such a huge sacrifice.”

“Yeah, it’s meant to be,” I replied, but I remember thinking--I still remember thinking--that it didn’t feel like a huge sacrifice for me to make.

It was just something that came with the job, and if Gordon heard me say that, he would, without doubt, have a pun for the occasion, which is why I have been careful not to let him.

My whole attitude to the vow of chastity I’ll have to make can easily be summed up in two words; “Oh, well.” So maybe it really isn’t a huge sacrifice. Maybe it’s not a sacrifice at all.

So maybe I’m ace. And maybe I’m aro.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

At breaktime the next day, Etta beckons for me to sit down next to her on one of the benches in the corner of the quad. “I need to talk to you,” she said when the bell went for the end of the lesson, and she glanced at my blazer sleeve like she was debating the merits of taking my arm to walk outside.

But she didn’t, and she doesn’t, even when we’re sitting down on the bench, and I guess it’s got something to do with her needing to talk to me. Just as well she asked, really, because I’ve spent the whole morning trying to work out how to have a conversation with her away from the others.

“What’s up, sweetie?” I ask, twisting around on the bench so that I’m facing her, leaning my right elbow on the back-rest, and my chin on the heel of my upturned hand.

“I...” Her forehead wrinkles, and she swallows hard, as if she’s trying to gulp down whatever’s keeping her from saying what she needs to. That we should… not see each other again? Not hang out anymore? Not…? I don’t know. After a deep, shaky breath, she says, “I think I might be asexual. And I think it might be best if we don’t go on any more dates… because I think you’ll want it to go to places I don’t want to visit.” She’s staring at the concrete floor of the quad. “Obviously it’s too soon to be...” She coughs. “Too soon to be doing that anyway, so early on, but… it’s always going to be too soon. Because the right time is never going to come. Because I just…” She shakes her head. “I’m not made for that. I don’t think I ever have been. I’m sorry.” She sighs, and pinches the cuff of her blazer sleeve so that she can wipe her eyes.

She’s crying? Oh, no, no, no, now I’m crying, and the Lord alone knows how that looks.

I shake my head, and reach for her hands. “Please don’t be sorry,” I say, when she looks up.

“But I can’t be… that… for you. For anyone. And you deserve to know that, so that we can put an end to this, and you can go and be with someone who can.”

Hoping it’s not the wrong thing to do in this moment--because having her think I want to let go of her--I let go of her hands. “I don’t think I want someone who can,” I sign slowly, “Because I don’t think… I don’t think I can, either. I don’t think I want to. Do you… do you know what “aro-ace” means?” I fingerspell it.

Etta nods. “I saw that article on the Rainbow Room yesterday, yeah… Is that you?”

“Yeah, I… I think so. I only learned what the words meant yesterday, but… that article really got me thinking. And that letter…” I trail off, remembering what exactly the letter had said. Who had sent it.

Oh.

Oh.

I stare at my hands. “Halp,” I fingerspell… and then I turn to look at Etta. “You’re Halp, aren’t you?” It makes sense. It makes so much sense. Everything matches up. So that’s why she didn’t want us to kiss! And this is why I was relieved when she said so! Because she’s the same as I am! “Etta, you’re Halp!”

“I needed a pseudonym in case you read the article,” she signs. And then she bursts out laughing. “Little did I know it was exactly the article you needed!” She takes hold of my hands, and smiles, tears no longer in her eyes, but streaming down her cheeks, and no longer worrying, but heartwarming. They’re sparkling! She’s sparkling! “Did you see the quasiplatonic stuff?”

“I did!” I nod, and suddenly I’m almost sobbing with happiness, and I’m squeezing her hands, and feeling this pull in my chest, like a magnet, drawing me towards Etta, needing to hug her, but I can’t hug her and talk to her at the same time!

“I think that’s what I want with you, Tim!” she says, “A quasiplatonic...” She shakes her head, and giggles. “That’s a tricky word. I had to get Angie to show me how to say it. I’m still getting the hang… never mind!” She leans forward, and presses her forehead against mine. “A QPP!” she fingerspells, as both of us lookdown at her hands. “Do you want it?”

Sitting as we are, nodding is possibly the most uncomfortable thing either of us could possibly do. I know the hand sign for it, but something about it feels wrong for this. Too small for something so significant to both of us, maybe. This is what’s been drawing us together, all along. So I fingerspell it.

“Yes.”

Chapter 33: Desecration: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning: PTSD / Assault / Attempted Rape

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
The GSA meeting at lunchtime is crowded with students, including almost as many new faces as came to the last meeting, and have come to this one. Angie’s pulled a bunch of her friends into the meeting, and so have the Year Sevens and the Year Eights who Mrs Paulson shepherded into the first one.

I don’t actually register much of what happens in the course of the meeting itself, because I spend most of it chatting to Etta and Char and Scott about Scott, about how long we’ve been together, with Lena occasionally turning around to grin at the four of us.

Lena. Of course Lena knows. Lena’s probably known about this for longer than any of us—including Scott. Perceptive, that girl.

As I say, I don’t register much of the actual meeting, which is maybe not best reflective of my role as Vice Chair, but I’ve got to say I’m struggling to care. The whole point of a GSA is that we can feel safe and happy to share parts of our lives we can’t discuss outside. Scott and me, dating. Char, being bi. Tim and Etta—and I never saw this one coming—both being aro-ace, and in a QPP as of breaktime today.

“Really?” I sign, grinning, “That’s so cool! What are the chances?”

Etta and Tim exchange a look somewhere between relief and incredulity. The chances they had of finding each other—if you think about all the parts of their lives that had to line up—are somewhere below abysmal, when you think about it. So few people are ace. So few people are aro. Even fewer are both, and… blimey, for them to be in the same village? For them to feel the same way about each other? They’re even luckier than Scott and I, to have it all turn out nicely.

Just sometimes, life is a jelly that flops perfectly out of its mould. I say this as if I like jelly. Maybe cake would have been a better comparison. But cake usually comes out just fine, because… well… cake-cases exist.

“We found out about it through the Rainbow Room,” Tim says, “Or, well, Etta wrote in, and then I read Iris’ response, not having a clue that she was in the same boat. Etta, I mean. And I was just about to go to her, freaking out, like, “I need to talk to you about something important,” and then she said it first!” He laughs, and reaches for Etta’s hands, lacing their fingers together for a moment, just a moment, so that she can still sign.

“So, yeah, um… Char was half-right,” Etta adds, “And half-wrong, but… I mean, the wrong half kind of… made the whole thing right, so…” She grins, and giggles. “And there you were being all, “Ooh, you two should make out in front of your parents, Etta, you’re totally in love!””

“I didn’t say “make out in front of your parents!”” Char protests. But then she preens her hair, and tosses her head like a cheerful prize pony. “But, yes, I was mostly right.”

“Half-right,” Etta corrects her.

“The bigger half,” Char replies, “Definitely the majority.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Russ waylays me at the end of the meeting, and gets his phone out of his pocket. “Look, um, Gordon, can I maybe get your number? I’ve been meaning to ask you something, and, like… I don’t know how easy it would be to do it at school, what with your classes and my work, and… you know how it is.”

“You go ahead,” I say to Scott, nodding him out of the classroom, “I won’t be a minute.”

“Cool, cool.” Scott smiles at the two of us, and strolls out of the classroom with his hands in his pockets. I half expect him to whistle, he looks so jaunty, but, sadly, the world is sometimes a very cruel and wicked place.

“I can’t work out what to do with the Rainbow Room,” Russell says, “And I know it sounds really stupid, because it’s just a website, and I’m sixteen, not sixty, but…” He shakes his head. “I just can’t get my head around it. How to navigate it. How to find stuff, how to use it, you know?”

“I mean, kind of? I think I had a similar problem when I first got tumblr, couldn’t work out how the Hell other people were able to just… scroll down and find stuff they wanted. Now, I can go down my dashboard just fine, find a meme, have a little giggle, no issue at all. You probably just need to get used to the Rainbow Room.”

Russ looks a bit sheepish. “I know. I know it’s silly, but… I was kind of hoping you could come over and give me a driving lesson?”

I snort with laughter, which is distinctly unladylike of me, but, at least, it is on-brand. “I can’t drive, fam, I’m gay.”

Russ laughs as well. “You know what I mean. Would you come over, at the weekend, maybe? Show me how to use the Rainbow Room, so that I can get used to it with some kind of… I don’t know… guidance? Mentorship? Otherwise I’ll never get used to it. It’s like, every time I go on it, it’s just overwhelming, so much information, all at once, and…” He shakes his head. “Maybe it’s just me being shit with technology.”

“Hey, don’t put yourself down!” I scold him, “Say no more. I’ll come over… Saturday morning? Maybe around ten?”

“We’re gay, we don’t wake up until noon,” Russ says.

“Very true,” I say, “So shall we say two o’clock? Sound good?”

“Sure thing!” Russ opens up his phone and makes a new contact. “Would you put your number in for me?” he asks, holding the phone out.

“Sure thing,” I say, obliging. “Send me a little text, so I’ve got your number, too, yeah? And, uh… I’ll see you on Saturday.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Scott and I hop off the bus that evening, and walk up to Chase Valley Road with Etta and Char, the four of us linking arms in a long chain. Angie runs to catch up with us, I link my arm through hers as well, so that she’s not left behind. Don’t really want her walking around on her own at the moment. She might not be my cousin, but I wish she were. And I fucking well wish Paul weren’t.

I feel like I’m in that scene in every panto, where the characters are trying not to be caught by some ghost or wolf or crocodile, and start singing the theme from “Ghostbusters” like they think it’ll help. And no matter how loudly the audience shouts, “It’s behind you!” they never realise it’s right fucking behind them, and, one by one, they all get picked off. Call it natural selection in action, but at the moment, it’s relatable. Except that we’re not singing “Ghostbusters,” because that never works. We’re just walking with our arms linked together, which should keep us safe, at least for the walk back from the bus stop to our houses.

Scotty and I break away from the group first, and then Etta and Angie go up the road with Char, to drop her off, before walking back to their house together.

“See you tomorrow!” I say as we each go into our separate homes. I pause with one hand on the door-handle, and turn to smile at him.

“Tomorrow!” he repeats, glancing quickly up and down the street, before pressing his fingers to his lips and blowing me a kiss. “Bye!”

I wish I could hang out with him this evening as well, but I am grounded for running off the other evening, when I came out to Mum and Dad. I have to say I saw it coming, but… even so, it’s fucking annoying.

I sit and do my homework, but not because Mum said so. I sit and do my homework, and I glare at my bedroom door every time I write a full stop. At the end of every paragraph, I stick up my middle finger in the direction of her room, where she is sleeping off a night shift, rattling the quiet of the house with the rumble of her snores.

I could sneak out. I know very well that I could sneak out, and go to Scott’s, but, as soon as Mum woke up, she’d realise I was gone. She’s got some way of sensing my absence, even when she can’t possibly have seen or heard me leave, and I’ve made it look like I’ve just gone to the bathroom. On occasion, I’ve locked the bathroom door from the outside, and then darted back into my room as quietly as possible, and then pulled up my window, to make my escape. It only worked the first time, and, every time after that, I came back from wherever I’d been—usually the lake, or Char’s or Etta’s or Scott’s, although sometimes I’d hop on a bus to Prudhoe, or walk into Wooler—to find her waiting for me on the stairs, mouth set like the concrete slabs of a dam, holding back the ferocity of her anger like an inconceivable weight of water. Only for the moment. Only for the moment, and with the promise of total obliteration, the moment it breaks.

Well, not this time. I’m not waiting for that ugly old hag to ransack my computer, read my diary, or break into my phone and pore over my texts until she finds something she can use against me. I gather everything I can think of to keep safe, and put it on my desk, pressing my bedroom door shut as soon as both hands are free. That way, I can close it slowly, close it silently, close it without waking her and being caught and cautioned.

And then I work fast.

I peel off the back of my phone, take out the SIM, and put it into my old phone, a flippy affair that almost screams “drug dealer!” Then I take out my new phone’s battery, for good measure, and slip it into the top drawer of my desk, just for the moment. At the bottom of my wardrobe is a little toolbox, about the length of my forearm, and about as wide and tall as my hand is long. It doesn’t hold much, but it does hold a set of screwdrivers, and screwdrivers are exactly what I need right now. Pulling out the finest Philips-head of the lot, I open the bottom of my laptop, prise out the hard-drive, and add it to the desk drawer.

Now, then, where to put my contraband? Under the mattress is far too obvious, and I’ve just come out of the closet, so my wardrobe’s not an option either. Mum will dig through the mess at the bottom and find whatever I even try to stash there, as I remember all too well from a box of biscuits I used to keep in there for snacks. “Not healthy,” according to her, but, then again, she smokes, so I’m not exactly sure she’s the authority on such matters. Even if she were… biscuits are fucking delicious, and, honestly, I don’t think they’ve ever actually killed anyone. Chris tried to fucking kill me, and he didn’t get into any proper trouble for it. Honestly, the police should be going after him, not biscuits.

I keep looking around my room, pacing about like a tiger in a cage, trying to think of somewhere she won’t look. Sock drawer, same problem as the wardrobe. Under the bed might as well be under the mattress.

My eyes come to a corner of the room that I don’t use much. There’s not much there except the edge of the carpet, where it meets the skirting board, because it’s under my desk, and the only thing that ever sits there is the bin, when I kick it aside by accident.

But I reckon I can start keeping the bin there on purpose from now on, if I can just… ahem… make a few sneaky little updates to the shape of the carpet. I dig through my desk for a pair of scissors, and open them up, wide, like a butterfly knife. The blades glint, and, if this were a film, they’d hum a lovely, pure E4 as I looked at them. But, luckily, this isn’t a film, and so the scissors stay more or less silent as I pull the bin out of the way, crouch under the desk, and score the edges of a square into the carpet.

And then I peel it up, and scrabble with the edge of the floorboard underneath, prising it up with my nails to reveal the rockwool insulating the first floor from the ground floor. Perfect. I jab the scissors into the fleshy fibre, loosening it up, and pull enough of it away that I can bury the hard drive and the battery of my phone inside. I cover my handiwork with some of the spare rockwool, and put the square of carpet back over the top, covering it all with the bin.

The rockwool, I shred, and throw out of the window, to be carried away by a bird building its nest. Well, then, I think the secrets of my computer will be safe as long as they need to be. The necessary done, I get on with my homework.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

There’s a knock at my door, late on Thursday evening, and I go to answer it, because I’m alone in the house, and, well… what’s Mum going to do about it? Someone has to answer the door, and, if I don’t, then I’ll get in trouble for that, too.

There’s a short man at the door, face mostly hidden by the brim of a black snapback with “Brighton” embroidered across the front, and I glance behind me into the hallway, trying to work out how much time I’ll have if something goes wrong. Time to run to the kitchen and grab a knife, time to run to the phone and call… the police? Ha. I have no clue who this man is—with his clipboard—but I doubt the police would get here in time to—

“Mr Benn?” the man says, bowing his head to look at the piece of paper on the board.

I mean, Mr Benn is my Dad, or Jake. Personally, I prefer Sir Gordon, or Baron Benkingtonshire, but the Royal Mail doesn’t have that on record. “…Yes?”

“Sign here, please.” The man passes the clipboard into my hands, and hands me a pen. And then he looks up, just enough so that I can see it’s Angus—it’s Angus! It’s Nicks! It’s Angus McNicholas—and whispers, “Your Mum’s not in, is she?”

I shake my head. “Nah, fam, she’s out at work.”

Angus nods knowingly. “Thought she might be, but, uh, didn’t want to take the chance.” He gestures to the clipboard. “Hence… well, aren’t you going to sign it?”

“Don’t know. Are you allowed to come in if I don’t?”

Appearing to think about it for a moment, Angus scratches his chin. “I’m not sure anymore, to be honest. I’ll have to ask the vampire who turned me what the rules are on such matters.” He clears his throat, and then turns around to face Scott’s house. “All clear, Sir!” he calls, cupping his hands around his mouth and directing his voice at Scott’s window.

A pair of thumbs appear, sticking determinedly up, and then Scott bounds out of the door a moment later, pulling on his denim jacket, the one with the sheepskin collar. “Let’s bop!” he says, skidding to a halt just behind Angus. “Ooh, what a nice hat,” he says, whisking it off Angus’ head, and sticking it—backwards—onto his own.

“Bop?” I say, “Where are we going?”

“I thought Prudhoe!” Angus says, slinging his arm around Scott’s shoulder. The difference between their heights makes Nicks almost comically-lopsided, but it’s also quite… endearing. Oh, dear. Apparently it’s not just Scott I like.

“We could catch a movie at the Kino, and then, I don’t know… go and hang out in the ruins,” Scott suggests, “Or get dinner somewhere. It’s up to you.”

I laugh. “Looks like the two of you have organised quite an evening out,” I say, reaching behind the front door to get my jacket. “Movie and dinner…” I grin, “…at the castle?”

“Oh, yes!” Angus says, grabbing my hand, and pulling me and Scott down the street, “What time does the bus come?”

Scott shakes his head. “Better to go for the train at this point,” he says, “By the time we’re ready to come back, the last bus of the evening will be gone.”

Angus groans. “Oh, your public transport is terrible!”

“I know, honey, I know,” I say, linking one arm through his, and the other through Scott’s, “But at least it’s there. At least we can get the train.” But what kind of world is it where taking the train is the bright side? Sheesh.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The train was mostly empty, only a handful of passengers apart from the three of us, who managed to get a little compartment of four chairs facing a table, not that we use them. Angus sits on my lap, and I sit on Scott's lap, and the three of us snuggle up for the journey, arms wrapped around each other's waists.

We roll into Prudhoe station as a little group of three, riding without tickets, because there's no machine at Chase Valley, and the conductor hasn't come through on the way. If you're lucky, you can go all the way to Prudhoe and back for free, because it's very easy to slip out of the station through the side gate.

And that's exactly what we want to do, and the three of us jog to the cinema just in time for the eight o'clock showing of "The Fault in our Stars", which ends with me grabbing both Angus' and Scott's hands, and holding them tight to my chest as I sob like a child.

"Oh, my God, sweetie, are you OK?" Angus says, wrapping his arm around my shoulder.

"I'm never gonna be OK again!" I wail, as he and Scott help me hobble out of the cinema.

I'm a sobbing wreck, but at least I'm not the only one. Tears are streaming down Scott's face, and Angus' eyes are wet, and rimmed with red.

"Shall we go for a curry?" Scott asks, as the three of us slope messily up the high street to an Indian takeaway.

"I think that might be nice, yeah," I mumble. Tikka is extremely comforting, I think, almost as good for drying up tears as a packet of bourbon biscuits.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Scott passes me a peshwari naan wrapped in tin foil, and I cradle the chunk of warmth to my chest, peeling the foil back and breathing in the gorgeous, soft scent of coconut and raisins. “Ahh, God, I love this!”

Scott laughs as he digs through the carrier bag and hooks out one tub of chicken tikka masala and one tub of fragrant pilau rice. “Dig in, my boys,” he says, passing plastic spoons to each of us. “I’m sorry there weren’t any forks!”

“It’s fine,” Angus says, his mouth already full of the hunk of bread he’s torn from the top of his garlic naan, “I’d be quite happy to eat with my fingers.”

I settle back against the castle wall behind me, and rest my head against the yellow stones. The sun’s going down, and the whole of Prudhoe looks like it’s on fire. I twist around, to see if the castle looks the same, and I see the whole thing glowing gold, long shadows swooping around like ravens. “Mm, gorgeous!” I say, popping my naan back in its wrapper and putting it in the carrier bag for a moment. “Let’s get a photo!” I reach into my pocket, and then remember, with a groan, that I don’t have my phone with me. “Fuck. Have either of you got your phones?”

Scott leans in to kiss my cheek as he takes out his, and snaps a picture of the three of us, heads together, all grinning and holding up our takeaways. “Mm, legendary,” he says, “One for the Louvre.”

“Innit, though,” I say, taking a big spoonful of rice, then a big spoonful of curry, and shoveling it into my mouth. I groan in delight. “Bloody Hell, this is delicious.”

Two shadowy figures stop at the bottom of the hill, and one of them switches on a torch, bright enough with its LED bulbs that it hurts to look at it directly, even from here.

“What the fuck’s that bastard playing at?” I mumble, shielding my eyes from the beam. My stomach gurgles as if to warn me that it could well be Chris, it could well be Chris, out by chance on the same night Scott, Angus and I have gone to Prudhoe, thinking we’re safe. But who’s the other person?

Oh, God.

What if Chris has turned Ffion against us, actually turned her against us, rather than simply thinking he has? Oh, God, oh, God, what he might have threatened to get her to side with him, what he might be able to do, now that he’s not on his own… oh, God, oh, God, why didn’t I bring a knife with me? Why didn’t I bring the scissors I used to cut away the carpet?

Swallowing hard, I drop the spoon, grab Scott’s hand, and then Angus’. “Stay still,” I whisper, “If we stay really still, maybe he won’t see us.”

Scott squints at the figures as they approach. “Who is it?”

Angus looks at the two of us, chewing his lip. “Do we have time to run?”

Apparently, we don’t. The figures break into a jog, and scoot up the hill to the castle, both of them now with torches, and, around the beam, their faces come into focus. And one of them is as recognisable to me as my own.

“What the Hell do you think you’re playing at?” snaps Mum, turning off her torch, and nodding for the pig next to her to do the same. “Out at this time on a school night, and when you’re grounded, too! What the fuck are you playing at?” She glares down at me, grabs my arm, and tries to haul me to my feet. “Get up!” she snaps, yanking at my biceps, “I said, “Get up!” You’re lucky I’m not taking you home in handcuffs!”

I try to make myself heavy, sit down harder in the grass, so that she can’t pull me to my feet, and glare at her. “You’re not taking me home at all!” I retort, “I’ll come home in my own damn time! I’ll take the bloody train!”

“Don’t you fucking swear at me, Gordon Thomas Benn!” Mum hisses, “And don’t you dare make a scene! You’re embarrassing yourself!”

I look at Scott, and then I look at Angus. I don’t want them to see me and Mum have a massive argument. It’s not like they don’t know my parents are a pair of arseholes, but I don’t want them to have to watch the proof. I sigh heavily. “Sorry, lads,” I mumble, prising Mum’s fingers off my arm, and standing up. “Fine, I’ll go home. Are you happy?”

“We’ll see him home, Mrs Benn,” Angus says, standing up, too. “There’s no need for you to take time out of work.”

Mum glowers at me, and then nods at Angus. “Quite why you’re hanging around with my son, I don’t know, but...” She sniffs loudly. “If you think you can get him home without him running off, very well. But I’ll want your name and your phone number, please.” She glances at Scott, who’s gathering the takeaway into the bag, and getting to his feet. “I already know yours. And I’ll be having words with your parents. They shouldn’t let you out this late.”

Scott nods dutifully, and lowers his eyes to the ground. “Yes, Mrs Benn.” He meets my eye out of the corner of his own, and mouths, “Sorry, Gordy.”

“I’m not going to lecture you all here,” Mum says, “Your parents are probably quite worried enough about your safety as it is. You don’t need to stay out any later than you already have. Get on home, now, all of you!” She jerks her head at her colleague, and they both march off down the hill.

Scott and Angus grab my hands, and we walk back to the train station. We just miss the soonest train, and it’s a long wait in the dark and the cold for the next one.

We huddle together on the bench, keeping warm by eating up our takeaway. Scott takes off his jacket and drapes it around my shoulders, so I stretch it around Angus’ as well, leaning on Scott until the train finally rolls up.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Mum bangs on my door at half-six the next morning. “Get up!” she snaps, storming in, yanking away my duvet, and dragging me out of bed. “Get in the shower, get dressed, and go to school. Take the early bus. I’m sick of the sight of you.”

And yet… she grounds me… to keep me at home… so that she can keep an eye on me. Curious. Curiously illogical.

I wash and dress, and go to the kitchen to make myself a cup of coffee, but Mum thrusts my satchel into my hands, and pushes me out of the door. “Go to school,” she orders, “And come straight home this evening. You’re not going out on your own again, do you hear me? And don’t think there won’t be consequences for your little outing last night. If you thought you were grounded before…” She trails off, and sucks air through her teeth, shaking her head and narrowing her eyes. “Get out of my sight.”

Muttering curses under my breath, I stamp down the High Street to the bus stop, where… fuck.

Chris is sitting on the bench already. I guess that’s why I haven’t had to see him on the bus recently. Maybe he’s just trying to stay out of my fucking way, but I doubt it. More likely, his Mum’s putting him on the early bus every day, to keep him out of trouble… or he’s putting himself on the early bus, so that he can plot against all of us. He doesn’t look up as I approach, just taps away at the screen of his phone.

I don’t get close enough to see what he’s writing. I back away slowly, and head for the gate to the woods. Fuck the early bus. I’m fucking walking in.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When I get home from school, I stamp up the stairs, and drop my satchel on the floor, kicking it away from the door, so that I can slam it shut.

My hand sweeps against nothing. Nothing. There’s nothing there… just… nothing. I whip around to see that my door has been lifted off its hinges, and is now… I march out of my room, and yomp around the house, looking for it, banging every available door behind me. If I can’t slam my own, Mum, I’m damn well going to slam yours. Even if it does fucking shake the fucking house.

My fucking door! My fucking door is gone!

I find her in the kitchen, sitting at the table with her hands folded in front of her. As I come in, she looks up, and raises her eyebrows. “Is there something you’d like to ask?” she says.

“Oh, there are several things I’d like to fucking ask!” I snap, “Where the Hell is my door, for one?”

Mum shrugs. “I’m sure I don’t know what you mean. None of the doors in this house belong to you.”

“The one that leads to my bedroom does!” I retort.

“No,” Mum says, “There isn’t a door that leads to your bedroom.” She gives me a big, fake smile, and I want to kick her in the shins. “There’s a doorway, but there isn’t a door. Did there use to be a door?”

I glare at her. “You stole my fucking door,” I snap, “You stole my fucking door. How the fuck am I supposed to have any privacy now?”

“I don’t know, Gordon,” Mum says, “I guess you’ll just have to try earning it back. Privacy is a privilege, not a right.”

“Typical fucking police,” I mutter, stamping over to the kettle, filling it at the tap, and slamming it down to boil. “Fucking watching everyone and everything, always needing to know everyone’s private fucking business, never letting anyone have a damn thing for themself, running the country as a surveillance state--”

“That’s enough!” she shouts, scraping back her chair and kicking it aside. Suddenly she’s behind me, clipping me hard around the ear. “You’d better learn the meaning of respect, young man, or you’ll find yourself losing a lot more than your door!”

“I thought I never had one,” I spit, “Or are you having trouble keeping your story straight, officer.” I laugh in her face. “Funny, that. I thought I’d be the one struggling, there.”

“You don’t need to keep your stories straight,” Mum says sharply, “I can always tell when you’re lying.”

“Oh, yeah, I’m sure you can! You’re so observant, you thought I was a straight!”

She grabs the collar of my shirt, and yanks it upwards, so that I have to stand on my tiptoes to keep breathing. “Go up to your room and bring me your laptop and your phone. You can do without them until you can learn the importance of obedience.”

I bare my teeth at her, and swat her arm away, hard. “Fine,” I snarl, spinning on my heel and stamping up to my room. I unplug my laptop from the wall, slip my phone out of its hiding place, and stick the bin back over the cut carpet.

Then I stamp back downstairs, slamming my feet as hard as I can into every single tread. “Here!” I snap, banging both down on the table. “Now you can invade my privacy to your heart’s content!”

“Go to your room,” Mum says, eyes hard, as she thrusts an angry finger in the direction of the stairs. She glares at me for a moment, and then she screams, “I said now!”

I clench my fists, face burning as my heart pounds. She’s about to hit me, I know it, and I’m not sticking around to see how far she goes.

I turn. I run. I jump into bed and pull the covers over my head. She can send me to my room if she wants. She can’t stop me sleeping in my clothes. She can do what she wants. She can’t stop me replaying yesterday evening in my head.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The rest of the week is like boot camp--up at half-six, shower and dress, leave for school, come right home--and the worst part is that, much as I get to see Scott at school, we can’t do anything.

Chris keeps on staring at me, watching me and watching me and watching me until I want to give him two black eyes, and he never says anything… but it’s obvious that he’s planning what he’ll do next.

I say “obvious” as if it’s something I’ve got to work out. Luckily, Ffion still texts me every evening, and, with the help of my trusty flip-phone, I get to find it all out from her.

Not that it makes me feel any better to know Chris thinks Lena’s girlfriend, “Tilly”, is really Etta. Not that it makes me feel any better to know Chris is looking at guns online. Not that I like having to switch my phone off at four every evening, and having to keep it switched off until I’m at school.

Finding places to charge it when I can’t do it at home, and can’t let the teachers see my phone during school hours is nearly impossible, and, if this phone weren’t so fucking old, it would be dying on me every single day. I see the battery go above twenty percent once, and then I have to rip my cable out of the wall, because Mrs Paulson is giving me a look, and that look seems to say, “I don’t care that it’s lunchtime, Gordon. You’re not allowed to have your phone out at school.”

Any other teacher would have confiscated it on the spot, but Mrs Paulson is the sort of person to give everyone a second chance. Good news for me with my phone, bad news for me with Chris.

She just shakes her head, and gives me that look until I put my phone away, assuring her it’s switched off, and I was only charging it so that I could use it on the way home.

“You should charge it at home,” she says, her lips thin.

I nod, mumbling, “Yes, Miss,” because it’s a good deal simpler than explaining that I really can’t do that, because I currently live in some parody of “Orange is the New Black,” except that I can’t even hide my phone in the toilet.

I have to hide it at the bottom of my school-bag instead, only looking at it when I’m at school… which is a fun and amusing kind of ironic.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When Saturday comes around, I expect Mum to tell me I have to stay in, that I can’t go to see Russ, but, oddly, she doesn’t.

“As long as you’re in the house from four o’clock, I don’t much care what you do with your Saturday, as long as you’re not under my feet. I’ve got work to do,” she says, “Just don’t cause any trouble.”

“Oh,” I say, genuinely surprised, “Thanks. Shall I… shall I take my phone with me, to keep track of the time? To stay in touch?”

She rolls her eyes, and shakes her head. “Nice try,” she mutters, “But you’ve got your watch on, and you know what will happen if you’re not back by four, so...” She shrugs. “I guess you’ll just have to do without.”

I nod, and jog out of the door before she can change her mind. I don’t stop running until I’m in Wooler, and I get to the Birds’ house.

I check my watch. It’s about five minutes to two. That gives me, what? An hour and a half before I need to be going back? An hour and forty minutes if I run again. Fucking curfews. What is this, martial law?

Several years of birthday parties and--though it’s been a long time since we called them this--playdates at Patrick’s have left me with something like muscle memory for getting there, and it’s not long before I’m strolling up to the front door, and rapping at the knocker.

There’s a faint thumping on the stairs, and muffled shouting from behind the door (mostly along the lines of, “You bastard!” and, “Get off me, you ugly little shit!”) before it opens, and Russell, ducking to dodge swipes and slaps from a disembodied hand with dirt under the fingernails, says, “Hey, Gordon! Come on in!”

I look meaningfully--and with a worried expression--at the hand currently attacking Russ, and cock my head on one side. “Are you sure it’s safe?”

Russell grins. “Give me one moment,” he says. He shuts the door, grunts loudly, and snaps, “Fuck off, toerag!” before opening it again, this time unbothered by disembodied body parts of any kind. “Sorry about that,” he says to me, “Patrick was getting ideas above his station.”

“Oh, yeah, my brother does that all the time,” I say, thinking of all the times Jake has nicked the last biscuit, or hogged a whole bag of Doritos, even though it quite clearly says, “share,” on the bag.

“Come on in,” Russell says, ushering me into the hallway and up the stairs. “My room’s just here.” One hand in the small of my back, he steers me through the door left of the top step, and closes it behind us.

“So, you wanted me to help you with the Rainbow Room?” I say, looking around for a computer. There’s a laptop sitting on his desk, lid closed, and I step towards it, but then Russ grabs my arm.

When I turn around, I see that he’s grinning sheepishly. “Um… I kind of… made it up,” he says, “About the website. I don’t really need help. I don’t use it all that much; it’s not really my thing. Sorry.”

I frown at him. “Why’d you ask me over, then?”

His hand drifts down my arm to thread fingers through mine. “Isn’t it obvious?”

“Um… not really,” I say, glancing at the door. I say, “Not really,” even though… I think I have a pretty good idea. Is that why he closed the door?

Russ pulls me towards him, and grabs my hips by my belt-loops, pressing himself against me… pressing his mouth against mine.

I jerk away from him, but he keeps kissing me, quite hard, and I have to grab his head to pull his face off mine. “What are you doing?” I stare at him.

“You’re so hot...” Russ murmurs, rubbing one hand against my crotch, and using the other to fumble at the zip of my jeans. “So fucking hot, oh God...”

“No,” I snap, grabbing his wrists. “No, I don’t want you to--”

But he doesn’t listen, and he doesn’t seem to notice my hands on his wrists, just keeps picking at the button below my navel until it’s undone and his hands are inside and I don’t want this and I don’t want this and I don’t fucking want this and I can’t breathe with his mouth mashing against mine and I can’t escape the shove of his teeth against my lips and I don’t want this and I don’t fucking want this and why can’t he see that and why isn’t he stopping and--

I shove him in the chest, yelling at him to get off, but he just shoves me right back, shoves me onto his bed and pins my wrists against the pillows with one hand while his other hand yanks at my jeans waistband and stop stop stop stop stop and he won’t stop and it doesn’t matter how much I struggle because his hands are both pulling off my jeans and pulling down my underwear and tears are streaming down my cheeks because this shouldn’t be him, it should be Scott and it hasn’t even been Scott yet and Scott would never be rough like this and I don’t want this, I don’t I don’t I don’t I don’t please stop please stop please stop kissing me please stop touching me please don’t do this please don’t do this please don’t--

I scramble at his chest, trying in vain to push him away, but he’s too strong and he’s heavier than I am and I can’t make him stop and any minute now he’s going to do it and then it will be too late and--

The door bangs open. “What the fuck?! Russ, what the fuck are you doing?!”

A new pair of hands wrenches Russell off me, and throws him sideways across the bed. Patrick. It’s Patrick and he’s made Russell stop but oh God what is he going to do to me?

He grabs a blanket and covers me up with it, stroking my hair and finding a tissue to dry my eyes and he’s helping me get to my feet and helping me walk downstairs, and… he’s helping me.

I stare at him as he guides me into an armchair. “How did you--”

“I heard you screaming,” Patrick says, voice cracking, “I thought you might be having a panic attack or something, like you’ve had in class before, but...” He looks at the ceiling, eyes wide.

(Of course… I hadn’t thought about the layout of the house before. Russell’s room is directly above us. My stomach itches.)

“I’m so sorry,” Patrick says, “If I’d known, I’d never have... ” He stares at the floor, like he’s expecting to find his words there. “I’m so sorry,” he says again. Maybe it’s all he can say.

Hands shaking, I pull my pants and jeans back up, and then push aside the blanket, because I’m overheating and I think I’m gonna be sick. “Not your fault,” I whisper, voice hoarse.

“Can I get you anything?” Patrick asks, “A cup of tea? Or is there someone I can call? Someone to take you home? Or the police?”

I grab the arms of the chair and dig my nails in, shuddering so hard it’s painful. Even the thought of telling Mum what just happened… I would die, if she didn’t kill me first.

Anyway, I can already hear what she’d say. “What the fuck were you thinking? What the Hell did you think would happen? What do you expect, when you go to a boy’s house for such a stupid reason? “I need help with a website,” indeed!” I flinch, feeling her slap me around the head. “You stupid boy! Do you never think things through? You disgusting idiot! You brought this on yourself!”

“No, you didn’t,” Patrick says, crouching down in front of me and looking into my eyes. “You didn’t. Don’t say that. Don’t ever say that. This wasn’t your fault. This was my brother’s fault.” He pauses, and shakes his head. “This was Russell’s fault.”

I frown. “Don’t say what?”

“Don’t say you brought this on yourself,” Patrick says, standing up and putting his arm around me. “You said… Did you know you were saying it out loud?”

I shake my head. The room spins around me, and my ears ring.

“Oh, fuck, put your head between your knees,” Patrick says, shoving at my shoulders so that I have to lean forwards. “I’m gonna get you a cup of tea. Lots of sugar. Fuck, fuck, fuck.” He keeps muttering, “Fuck,” as he runs out of the room, and I hear his voice fading in and out in waves. Somewhere very far away, a kettle rattles into life.

As the dizziness finally fades and I can sit up again, there’s a creak of wood, and Russell appears at the bottom of the stairs.

My heart goes crazy, and I scramble to my feet, shaking my head vigorously even as my vision goes dark around the edges and black spots flash across the room. “No, no, no,” I say, gripping the arms of the chair, “Don’t come any closer. I’ll scream. You know I’ll scream. And Patrick will stop you… You...” My legs fall out of existence, and I crash back into the chair.

“I had you down as a lot of things,” Russ says, folding his arms and leaning against the doorframe, “But I never thought you’d be a frigid little cocktease.” He almost spits the word, and then his face twists into a sneer, a curled lip and a raised eyebrow.

“I’m not…” I mumble, barely hearing myself over the high-pitched drone in my ears. “I’m not frigid. I just… I don’t want you.”

“Charming!” Russell snaps. “Then why did you fucking come here?”

“Because I thought you wanted help!” I whisper, taking deep breaths as waves of nausea crash over my head. “I never thought you’d try to… I wouldn’t have come here if I’d known you’d try to…” I can’t get the word past the lump in my throat. I can’t believe I’m having to say it. “I have a boyfriend,” I say, “I have a boyfriend, and I would never want to cheat on him...” I pant, squeezing my eyes shut to see if that slows the room down at all. “I told you to stop. I said, “No.””

Russell scoffs. “Not all of you was saying, “No.””

I turn scarlet, and my eyes burn with fresh tears. “That doesn’t count. You know damn well that dosn’t count. I was scared. You scared me. That’s the only reason--”

“Bullshit,” Russell snaps, “You wanted it.”

“No!” I squeak, grabbing the blanket off the floor and pulling it over my body. It doesn’t matter that I’ve put my clothes to right. It feels like they’re being torn off all over again. “No, I didn’t! I don’t!” Not yet, not for a long time, now, but especially not with him. “And if I did, it would be with my boyfriend!”

“Oh, yeah?” Russell sneers, “So why weren’t you with your boyfriend today? I wonder what he’d think of you going to another guy’s house to get fucked?”

“No, no, no.” I’m sobbing, gripping the blanket so hard that I can feel my nails pressing through it into the heels of my hands. “No! He would never… He would never judge me… He would never judge me for you trying to rape me!”

“Russell, get the fuck out of here,” Patrick says, glaring at his older brother. “Get the fuck out of here, and go to your room.”

“Dream on!” Russell laughs in Patrick’s face. “You can’t tell me what to do.”

“I can tell Mum and Dad,” Patrick says, turning his eyes to stone. “I can tell you to do whatever I want you to. So go to your room, right now. And leave Gordon alone for good.”

Maybe it’s the cup of fresh tea in Patrick’s hand that convinces him, or maybe it’s the threat of being known for… for what he really is… but Russell mutters something at Patrick, and disappears upstairs, slamming his door shut so loudly that I leap sideways in the chair.

“Here’s your tea, fam,” Patrick says, crouching beside me to hold out the cup.

I shake my head. “No, no, you have it. I don’t want it.”

“You should get your blood sugar up,” Patrick urges me, nodding at the cup, “Please, Gordon. You’ve had a really nasty fright.”

“No, no, I can’t stay here.” I get shakily to my feet, and stumble across the living room to the door, grabbing the doorframe as everything goes eerily quiet.

“You don’t have to,” Patrick says, kneeling down in front of me.

How did I end up on the floor? I look down and see my legs in a crumpled heap. Oh.

“Just have a sip or two of this tea, to get some of your strength back. How are you getting back to Chase Valley? Shall I call you a taxi?”

I shake my head. “No, no, you don’t have to. I’ll walk. It’s fine.”

“It’s no bother,” Patrick says, holding the mug up for me to drink. “You can’t walk all the way home like this. Let me call you a taxi, yeah?”

Swallowing a mouthful of hyper-sweet tea, I grimace, but I nod. Patrick’s right. If I tried to walk back to Chase Valley with my head full of bees, I’d collapse halfway through the woods. Hit my head on a root. Not be found for days. “OK.”

Patrick claps my shoulder. “There’s a lad,” he says, crossing the living room to get his phone off the coffee table. “Hello? Yes, yes. Um… can I get a taxi from Wooler to Chase Valley, please? The address? Uh… if you could pick my friend up from Number Twelve, Brookfield Lane, that would be brilliant. And…” He trails off, and looks over to me. “Gordon, what number’s your house?”

“Two,” I mumble, “Two, Chase Valley Road.”

“Brilliant,” Patrick says, repeating it for the taxi dispatcher. “Brilliant, thank you. Five minutes? Sure. Brilliant. See you then.” He rings off, and sits down next to me, helping me to another sip of tea. “It’s OK, fam,” he says, “There’s a car coming really soon, OK? But there’s time for you to finish your tea.”

I make myself drink it down to the dregs, and shudder as the last mouthful slips down, gritty with undissolved sugar. “Thanks,” I croak, covering my mouth with my sleeve, so that I can cough. “Really. Thank you.”

“Don’t thank me,” Patrick says, rubbing my shoulder. “I just did what needed doing. I’m sorry. And… don’t worry. I’ll see to it that Russ gets his.”

“No police,” I say, more sharply than I mean to. “No police,” I repeat, more gently this time. “Please. My Mum’s a copper. She’d be…” I squeeze my eyes shut, and shake my head. “Please don’t call the police.”

“I don’t think I could,” Patrick says, “I think it would have to be you. And it’s definitely your decision. Because it was you...” He sighs. “Because it was you that he… that he…”

I nod. “Yeah.” I guess neither of us can get that word out. Or, in my case, get that word out more than once.

A car horn sounds outside, and Patrick gets up to look out of the windows. “OK, your taxi’s here,” he says, helping me up. He digs through a letter-rack on the coffee table, and pulls out a twenty-pound note. “Here,” he says, “For the fare. Let me know if it’s not enough.”

“Thanks, Pat,” I whisper, voice cracking as my eyes well up again.

“Don’t mention it,” he says, walking me to the front door. He pauses. “But, if you do want to talk to anyone… I’ll be there to help you. To tell them what I saw.”

“Thanks,” I mumble, bundling the blanket up and giving it back to him. “You’re a good guy. I’m sorry.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The taxi lurches to a halt outside Scott’s house twenty minutes later, and I push the money into my driver’s hands.

“I said it was twenty-five pounds,” she says, twisting around in her seat and narrowing her eyes at me. But then she blinks, realising I’m not at my best. “Oh, never mind,” she says, “Call it twenty. And, um… I hope you have a nice evening.”

I nod, mumble, “You, too,” and crumple out of the car, staggering up to Scott’s house, and leaning on the doorbell.

The taxi drives away.

And the door opens, and there’s Scott, and he’s pulling me over the threshold into his arms, as easily as if I were a rag-doll. “Oh, my God, Gordon, what happened?”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

“I didn’t want to cheat on you!” I sob into Scott’s shoulder as soon as he’s got me up the stairs and into his room. “I told him to stop, I told him I didn’t want to, but he didn’t listen!” I cling to the fabric of his T-shirt, and bawl into his chest. “I’m so sorry! I should never have gone… I should have realised…”

“Oh, my God…” Scott whispers, stroking my hair, “Who? Who was this? Where were you? Was this… was this just now?”

I nod, tears soaking into his shirt. “Russell… he asked me to come over… I never thought…” It’s all I can do not to be sick as I cough against my sleeve. “I didn’t think he’d--”

“Gordon, there are bruises on your wrists,” Scott says, voice hoarse, tone horrified. “Gordon… What did Russell do?”

“He tried to…” Sobs overwhelm me before I can say it. “He pushed me onto the bed, he held me down, he pulled down my jeans, he… He…”

“Oh, Gordon, I’m so sorry,” Scott says, hugging me tightly. “I’m so, so sorry.”

I shake my head. “It’s not your fault.”

“It’s not yours either!” Scott exclaims, “Fucking Hell, I can’t believe it… I mean, I do believe it, I believe you, but…” He shudders. “How can one person do that to another?”

“Patrick stopped him,” I mumble, shaking, “And made sure I was OK… and called me a taxi, to get me back to Chase Valley.”

“And he didn’t ride with you?” Scott almost spits, “What kind of fucked up--”

“No, no, he’d have gone with me if I’d asked,” I say, “Don’t think Patrick would have made me go home on my own if he didn’t think I’d be OK.” I sit up suddenly. “He was the one who suggested I take a taxi. ‘Cause he knew I wouldn’t be able to walk it. And he made me a cup of tea, and he got me a blanket, and he sat with me until the taxi arrived. He gave me money for my fare. And he’s gonna tell his parents. Their parents.”

Scott nods, and bows his head as his eyes fill with tears. “OK,” he whispers, “OK. You’re right. Of course Patrick wouldn’t… Of course.” He swallows hard. “I’m so sorry. I’m not thinking straight.”

I laugh bitterly. “Makes two of us.” I snuggle back into Scott’s chest. “You know I’d never cheat on you, don’t you?”

He hugs me, and rubs my back. “Of course,” he says, “And you know I’d never cheat on you. And you know… I would never see something like this as cheating. As far as I’m concerned, Russell attacked you. It’s no more cheating--it’s no more something you did--than if he’d hit you.” He stifles a sob, and rocks me from side to side. “Gordon, I’m so sorry. I should have been there to protect you.”

“No,” I mumble, “This wasn’t your fault. Patrick said it was Russell’s.”

“Yeah,” Scott says, stroking my hair. “Yeah, it was. Do you want to… Do you want to tell anyone? Like… if you don’t want to talk to your Mum, you know you can always talk to mine, right? She thinks the absolute world of you.” When I laugh, he says it again, emphatically. “She really does! Sure, sometimes she teases me about you a bit, but only because she’s really happy we’re together. She actually saw it before I did, that I liked you like I do. She’s really fond of you.”

“I don’t think I want to tell anyone,” I say, “No offence to your Mum, but…” I shake my head. “I just want to forget about it. I can’t deal with it right now. Maybe, one day, I’ll talk, when I’m sure it’s all over, all this stuff with Chris, but I can’t think about stuff with Russell at the same time.” I sigh heavily. “I just can’t.”

“Well, if you ever do,” Scott says, “I’ll be here.” He wraps his arms around my waist, and pulls me onto his lap. “I’ll always be here, OK? And… if you ever want to talk about anything… I’m here for that, too.” He rests his forehead against mine, and gazes into my eyes.

I get the impression he’s encouraging me to say something, but, for the life of me, I can’t think what. But maybe he’s the one with something to say. “Same here,” I tell him, “If you ever need to talk.” I pause. “You know I’d never judge you if there was something you wanted to tell me, right?”

He shuts his eyes. “I know,” he whispers, “And… I know… I know how you feel about Angus.”

“What.” It’s not a question. It’s more of a… noise… that just slips out of my mouth. Suddenly, I’m back to that inability to breathe. “No, I don’t, I… I thought you felt--” I swallow hard. There’s no use denying it. Scott’s right. I do have feelings for Angus. “I wouldn’t ever cheat on you,” I say again, “I promise.”

“I know,” Scott says, “And I’d never cheat on you either, but… if you ever wanted to start seeing Angus… I’d be OK with that… as long as I could be part of it, too.”

“What are you saying?” I pull away from him slightly, draping my arms around his shoulders. “Like… you’re suggesting we… ask him out? How would that work?”

“There’s a tag on the Rainbow Room that has a bunch of posts about polyamory,” Scott says, “And I was thinking… if we both… if we both like Angus… then it makes sense to see if he likes us, too, right?”

I snuffle a laugh. “The odds of him liking me when he’s besotted with you!”

“I don’t know why that should stop him! I like you and I’m besotted with me!”

Now my laughter bursts forward, like an actual guffaw. “Oh, hello, Char, I didn’t realise you lived in Scott’s body!”

“What a terrifying thought.” Scott grins, and rests his forehead against mine. “But… I don’t think you’d be doubting yourself if you’d seen the way Angus looks at you when you’re not looking.”

“Oh, what, with bewildered confusion and concern?” I say. I scoff. “Everyone looks at me like that, including Lena. And I’m sure you’re not about to tell me she fancies a bit of the Bennjy.”

“I said, “when you’re not looking,” sweetie,” Scott says, running his fingertips up and down my back, so that I shiver, and curl into him, pressing my face into the side of his neck. “Feel free to say “no” if you’d rather not complicate things… or if you’d rather leave it for the moment, but… if you want to talk to him about the three of us maybe being an “us three”... I’m cool with that.”

“I think that might be nice, actually,” I mumble, wrapping my legs around Scott’s waist. “But maybe not this evening. I’ve only got until four. And I’d rather make the most of that. Spend it with you. In certainty.” I lift my head, and look into his eyes. “If that’s all right with you.”

“Of course!” Scott whispers, brushing his nose against mine as he closes his eyes and tilts his head to kiss me.

Chapter 34: Judgement: Scott
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Aphobia / Discussion of Sexual Assault (Brief).

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.
*Note: the potentially-upsetting scene is only at the very end of the chapter.

Chapter Text
Gordon wraps his arms around my waist and spreads his hands out across my chest as I cycle into Kirk Yetholm on Sunday afternoon, skidding to a smart halt outside Angus' house.

"Ding-dong!" I say, knocking at the front door and grinning at Angus through the open windows of the living room. "Gay-von calling!"

Angus laughs, puts aside the book he's reading, and climbs out of the window to hug us both. "Ah, my two fave knaves! What brings you here?"

"Are you free, Nicks?" Gordon asks him, climbing off the back of my bike before all this hugging tips it over.

He ponders for a moment, scratching his chin and looking at the sky. "Are any of us truly free under capitalism?"

I snort with laughter. "Barely even a question at this point, to be honest."

"Damn it, I mean, "Can you come out with us?"" Gordon says, shaking his head and refusing to dignify Angus' little joke with a laugh. "We were gonna have a movie afternoon at Scotty's, and we thought you might like to join us."

"And you came all the way up to Scotland to ask me?" Angus says, putting his palm to his chest and fluttering his eyelashes. "Aw! I'm touched!"

"I mean, we knew that," Gordon says, giggling as he dodges Angus' swipes. "Sorry, sorry! I couldn't resist! Anyway, are you in?"

"Lemme just grab my bike," Angus says, jogging over to his garden shed.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Twenty minutes later, the three of us are snuggling up on my bed, each with a mug of hot chocolate and a little plate of custard creams.

"Banging," Angus mumbles, his mouth full of biscuits. Then he manages to inhale some crumbs, and Gordon and I both have to thwack him on the back as a matter of urgency. "Cheers, lads," he says, taking a sip of hot chocolate to steady himself. "Oh, my God, I swear my whole life just flashed before my eyes. So much fucking coffee."

"Mm, relatable," Gordon says, grinning and ruffling Angus' hair. He's wearing it loose for once, and it's slightly damp; I guess he's washed it today.

I look at him over the top of Angus' head, and, raising his eyebrows, mouths, "Ask him!"

"Now?!" he mouths back, looking acutely and jarringly like he hasn't a clue what to say.

I nod vigorously, eyes wide.

I can tell exactly what he's thinking just from the glare he shoots me. "Thank you so much for getting me to ask, Scotty! Me, just because… why, actually?" I'm fact I can hear the words as he said them yesterday afternoon: "I'm not good at asking people out! I'm good at writing, playing guitar, and being a bitch."

But then he squeezes his eyes shut, and takes a little sip of hot chocolate for luck.. "Um… Angus… you know polyamory?"

"I've never been, but I hear the weather's nice this time of year." He takes a sip of hot chocolate, and then glances at Gordon out of the corner of my eye. And then he bursts out laughing. "Sure, I know about it. Why?"

"Oh, Scotty was talking about it yesterday," he says, giving me a big grin, "Weren't you, Scotty, my love?"

My cheeks burn pink, and I glare at him.

Why didn't I see that one coming?

"Yeah, you were weren't you?" he says, not breaking his smile for a moment.

"Yep," I stammer, "Um… yeah. We were wondering—me and Gordy—if it might be a nice idea. For us…" I swallow hard, and clear my throat. "The three of us. Me… and Gordon, and… and you."

Angus blinks. "What?" He opens his eyes wide, and then squints at some distant unknown, cocking his head on one side as if he's trying to focus on the words of a far-away street sign. I'm faced with a picture of Gordon before he got his glasses.

And then he looks at me, and then he looks at Gordon. "You mean it?"

I nod. "Kind of… both of us like you… quite a lot." I sigh heavily, as if I've been holding in a breath for a long time, and grin. "You're cute, and we both…" And then I look at Gordy as if to say, "You can say the rest."

"We both like you," he says, grinning at Angus. "And you don't have to say, "Yes," and it doesn't have to change anything between us three if you're not interested in an "us three," but… if you want there to be—"

"I think maybe I do," Angus interjects. "I mean… Not that I've ever expected anything like this, but… it's kind of what I've been hoping for, you know? 'Cause I like both of you a lot as well, and…" He grins. "If you're both happy to try… to try polyamory, then…" He shrugs, and giggles, glancing into his hot chocolate before having another mouthful. "I'm all for it."

Gordon and I both hug him, all collapsing into giggles as our mugs of hot chocolate slop around, splashing our hands.

"Whoopsie-Gänseblümchen," Gordon says, "Let's pop these aside." He puts his mug down on my desk, and then does the same with Angus' and mine. "Who's for cuddles?" he says, dancing across the floor and skipping back onto my bed. He flops down across mine and Angus' laps, grinning at us like a cat who will definitely dig its nails in and start hissing if disturbed.

So… I guess… just like himself.

Angus starts laughing, and slips his hands under Gordon's back, to lift him upright, so he and I can lay back across the pillows, with Gordon snuggling up between us, legs tangled around legs around legs, arms all wrapped around chests and necks and shoulders.

"This is nice," mumbles Gordon into the crook of Angus' arm. "You smell like cake."

"Thank you, I'll take that as a compliment," Angus says, grinning as he cards his hands through my hair.

"You should," I say, nuzzling my nose against his. "It's high praise from Gordon."

Gordon props himself up into his elbows. "You two better not be snogging without me!"

I press a kiss to his lips. "There, does that appease you?"

"No!" Gordon says, giggling, "I need at least three more of those!"

I watch as he settles himself on the pillows between us, and turns his head to gaze at Angus. He lifts a hand, and trails his fingers along the smooth line of Angus' strong jaw. And then he tilts his head as Angus leans on one arm, and bends to kiss Gordon. I watch as their lips meet, and meet, and meet again, and where some people might feel a stab of jealousy, I feel a sharp pull of need.

I roll onto my side, and kiss both of them at once, as well as I can, until all three of us are laughing at the awkwardness of it.

"Some feat of engineering," Angus says, pulling away and laying down on top of both of us. "Good thing one of us is Scottish, or we'd really be screwed."

Gordon bursts out laughing, and hooks one of his legs over Angus' hip. "My dear chap, are you saying that, because you come from the same country as James Watt, the Steaming Scot, you're innately better equipped to handle the logistics of kissing two people at once?"

"I'm not gonna make any comments about the Tay Bridge disaster," I say, "Because I am a very charitable and tasteful person, but I'm sure Gordon can recite the poem, to remind you."

I don't even finish speaking before he's launched into the first stanza, sliding his fingertips up and down Angus' back as he recites, pausing between each verse to kiss one or other—or both—of us.

And then he gets to the final lines, “For the stronger we our houses do build / The less chance we have of being killed,” and Angus splutters with laughter, rolling off Gordon’s chest and onto the mattress between us.

“That is terrible!” he exclaims.

“That is William McGonagall,” Gordon says, as if he’s correcting him, “And “The Tay Bridge Disaster,” which is either the best or worst poem ever written.”

“Definitely the worst, babe,” I murmur, kissing Gordon’s cheek as I wrap my arms around Angus and pull him close.

“I daresay!” Gordon says, and he snuggles up to Angus, sliding arms around his waist so that he can stroke my hips and Angus’ hips both at once. “And it’s all about a badly-built bridge. And who built it?” He nuzzles the nape of Angus’ neck, and hums a rising note, obviously waiting for an answer.

“Was it the Scottish?” Angus says trying to keep his voice as flat as possible, but I can see the flicker of a grin on his face, and I can see his eyelashes fluttering, and the blush rising in his cheeks.

“It was!” crows Gordon, so very pleased with himself that he just giggles when Angus promptly rolls them both over and sits on him. “The worst engineers in the world!”

“The Forth bridge is still standing,” I point out, which is very helpful of me, actually, so I don’t know why Gordon glares at me.

“See if I give you any extra kisses, now,” he mutters.

But I just wriggle closer to both of them, lean towards Gordon like I’m going to kiss him, but then sit up at the last moment, and kiss Angus instead.

It’s actually quite tricky to kiss without banging teeth if you’re both laughing so hard that you’re having to cling to each other so that you don’t fall off the bed.

“Absolutely disgraceful, both of you,” Gordon says, taking his hands off their resting places on Angus’ thighs, and folding his arms over his chest. “This is bullying. I’m totally gonna tell on you both.” And, when he doesn’t get a reaction, he starts humming to himself, and little by little, it becomes obvious that it’s supposed to be the tune of “All By Myself”.

Because of course it is. Because this is Gordon we’re talking about.

“Ahh, poor Gordy,” Angus says, pulling away from me and bending down to plant kisses all the way along Gordon’s neck. “Is that--” kiss, “--better--” kiss, “--or shall I--” kiss, “--keep going?” He’s moving down towards Gordon’s collarbones, head bent, beautiful vibrant hair swishing around as he moves, fingers picking at the buttons on Gordon’s shirt.

“Oh, fuck--” Gordon whispers, his breath hitching, “Oh, my God, Scott… Scott, you have to try this.”

I laugh, and lay down next to him, giving Angus big, sad eyes, until he gets off Gordon and straddles my hips instead.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Gordon and I walk to school together on Monday, early-early, before the first bus has even arrived. We stroll through the woods, hand-in-hand, as soon as he’s sure nobody’s followed us through the gate. We can’t even hold hands when it’s just the two of us. Being visible is dangerous. As three, we’ve got to hide.

And I hate that.

It’s only my parents that know. Angus’ don’t. Gordon’s don’t, obviously. I still feel a twist of nausea working its way up my gullet when I think about the evening he came out to them, how he had to take his chances while they were yelling at each other, and climb out of his bedroom window to hole up at mine until the shouting stopped.

And then it started again almost as soon as he got home. Saturday was the first day he was allowed out, and look how that ended.

“Bloody Hell, you’re gonna break my hand!” Gordon says, prising his fingers free of my grip, which has suddenly turned into a clench. Clenched teeth. Clenched fists. Clenched muscles. Is this what Gordon lives with all the time? Why do I let him go home at the end of our dates? Why do I have to?

At times like this, it’s really easy to see the appeal of running off and living in the woods somewhere, or in a cave, hundreds of miles from the nearest semblance of civilisation, and just sitting together, living off the fatta the land.

Not that I’ll miss studying “Of Mice and Men” when we finish our GCSEs. But the little farm is a nice dream, and, right now, it doesn’t sound too silly. Just too distant to be much comfort.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Somehow, I’m stupid enough to think Russell will stay away from the GSA after Saturday. And, as I say, that was stupid of me. Of course he turns up, still. He’s the Chair.

Which, incidentally, is what I’m tempted to lob at him when he starts muttering. I don’t know what he’s saying--it’s too quiet to hear--but, to be honest, I don’t care, and, anyway, I can guess it’s about Gordon from the way Russell’s staring at him from across the room, and how the muttering gets sharper and slightly louder every time Gordon gets up to speak.

Someone touches my arm, and I look up to see Tim shake his head, just a little bit, so that only I can see. Mrs P doesn’t seem to notice, and, of course, she doesn’t notice what Russell’s doing, either. I doubt it’s even crossed her mind that something’s changed between him and Gordon since the last meeting.

But Tim clears his throat softly, and raises his hand. He does so without really making eye contact with anyone, even Gordon, although he’s been keeping an eye on him for the whole meeting. Does he know? What could he know? Has Gordon told him? Has Gordon told anyone? I don’t think so.

As soon as Gordon spots Tim’s hand go up, he breaks into a grin, and nods. “Timberley!” he says, “Please share!”

Tim walks up to the front of the room, and picks up a purple marker from the table. “Mrs Paulson, is it OK if I add something to the resources list?”

“Of course, Timothy!” Mrs P says, beaming.

“OK, so I’ve recently found out about this really cool website called AVEN.” He writes it onto the sheet, and then looks up, grinning around the class. He looks at Etta, and beams. “That’s the Asexuality Visibility and Education Network.” He signs it as he says it, and his movements are so cautious and slow, that I guess he’s just learned these words fairly recently. “It’s for ace people, and kind of for aromantic people, too, but most for the ace community. Asexual people. It’s super helpful!”

Russell scoffs, the bitter sound of it making the whole room feel twenty degrees colder. “That’s meant to be a banner for LGBT resources,” he says, as if he’s talking to a child.

“I know,” Tim says, putting the cap back on the pen, and smiling. “That’s why I put it on there. To help anyone who’s part of the A in the acronym.”

“The A’s for “Ally”,” Russ says, “And there’s kind of a reason people only use the first four letters, you know?”

I give him my worst look out of the corner of my eye, thinking of a number of four-letter words that could describe Russell Bird, and a number of slightly longer words, too. One of them starts with the same letter as his name.

“It doesn’t mean the other letters aren’t there,” replies Tim levelly, “LGBT, QIA… the Q is for “Queer” and “Questioning”, and the I is for “Intersex,” and the A… I don’t know who told you it was for “Ally”, but they didn’t get that right. It’s for “Asexual” and “Aromantic” and “Agender”.” He pauses, and looks at Mrs P. “Isn’t it, Miss?”

Mrs Paulson nods. “That’s right, Timothy. Allies aren’t technically part of the LGBT Community. We just support it, and do our best to help people who are in the Community get justice, and rights that the government likes to withhold.”

“Yeah, it’s like how England isn’t part of France,” Gordon says, “Sure, they’ve fought wars together, but… they’re very definitely separate countries, and there’s been a lot of bloody history between them.”

Now Mrs Paulson wrinkles her nose. “I’m not sure you compare England and France to the LGBT Community and its Allies there, Gordon. It’s quite extreme.”

Gordon just looks at her.

“Whatever,” Russell says, “The board is for LGBT Resources. Not any of the other letters. And I’m the chair, so what I say goes. Cross it out.”

“Now, Russell,” Mrs P interjects, “I’m not sure that’s fair--”

She’s shouted down by half the meeting, most notably Soph, Char and Angie, who both stand up and yell--in support of Etta and Tim, I guess, though they don’t name names--things like, “Don’t hold back, Miss, he’s being a wanker!” and, “Shut the fuck up, Russell!” and, “What the Hell do you know?”, all words that would be flying out of my mouth right now if Tim weren’t holding his hand over my mouth.

If he weren’t my cousin, he’d have recoiled in horror, and let me shout as much as I want, when I licked his hand, but I guess growing up together has taken away the power of that little trick. Fuck.

As it is, I have to settle for glaring at Russell, and thinking all of it very loudly, along with a few other things I can’t get away with saying here. I guess I’ll just have to kick the shit out of Russ when I get the chance.

“Everyone, be quiet!” shouts Mrs Paulson, getting onto a chair and standing two heads taller than the rest of us. “Right now!” The classroom falls silent in half a second, and she sighs. “Thank you. Now, this is supposed to be a safe space for everyone to discuss their ideas freely. If you can’t respect Russell’s right to his own opinion, then I think it might be time to end this meeting early. And think very carefully about whether there should be any more.”

A groan runs around the room, and everyone who’s standing sits down, slowly.

“With respect, Miss, it’s not a matter of opinion, whether or not ace and aro people are part of the Community.” Etta is the only person still standing up, and though it sounds like she’s talking to Mrs Paulson, when I look where she’s looking, I realise that her brown eyes are fixed on Russ. “Stonewall considers ace and aro people to be part of the Community, as do a lot of other LGBT foundations and charities. It’s not really a matter of opinion at this point: the LGBT Community has been including ace and aro people under the A for years. Longer than any of the kids at this school have been alive. I don’t think it’s up to Russ to decide that should change. The A’s for ace, aro, and agender. It’s just a fact.”

Tim beams at her, sitting up a little straighter in his seat as she sits down. And then he takes her hand, and squeezes it.

I catch their eyes, and grin.

Chapter 35: Anger: Gordon
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Assault / Psychoemotional Abuse / Homophobia / Abuse of Power.

Chapter Text
When I get home from school, I’m met with the sounds of heavy footsteps upstairs. Heavy, not in the sense of their weight, but heavy in the sense of their pressure. The vigour with which they’re made.

Is Tetty in trouble again? Has Jake come home from work drunk?

I close the door gently behind me, and tiptoe up the stairs, to see if there’s anything I can do to help anyone, but, just as I’m crossing the landing to my sister’s room, Mum sticks her head out through my bedroom doorway, and barks my name.

“Gordon! Come in here, right now! Right now!” she hisses, stabbing an angry finger into my exposed room.

It’s in disarray, if that’s an adequate word. One proper look around tells me that, no, it’s absolutely not an adequate word. Fucking chaos barely touches it, so what the Hell is disarray meant to do? Stand on a box?

The mattress has been thrown off my bed, along with the sheets, the pillows and the duvet. It looks like our garden in the wake of a sparrowhawk. My desk has been dragged halfway across the room, and, of course, my bin has been knocked over. If I didn’t know better, I’d say the police had been through it.

But, of course, I do know better, and what I know is that just one police officer has been through it. And I know this because she’s standing in the middle of the floor, arms folded sharply across her chest.

“Your laptop’s on the kitchen table,” she says, “I turned it on.” She looks pointedly at the patch of carpet I’ve cut out of the floor. The rockwool is bare, and empty, and the swatch I’ve removed is nowhere to be seen. “Do you want to tell me why you saw fit to vandalise my house? Or shall we start by discussing why you were stupid enough to think I wouldn’t find your hard drive?”

I look at the floor, knowing it’s best not to say anything. Instead, I shake my head.

Mum marches past my and down the stairs, only stopping in the front hallway, where she turns on her heel, and yells, “Well, get down here, then! I haven’t got all day!”

Ugh, the classic, “Let’s be ‘avin’ you.” What shall we bet that she’ll tell me to, “Shut it!” if I try to explain myself? Let’s not find out.

I go downstairs, hands in my blazer pockets, and amble into the kitchen. True to Mum’s word, my laptop’s on the table, and it’s open, and it’s switched on… and I guess I didn’t delete my browser history as thoroughly as I thought I did, because she’s obviously found something.

Butterfingers.

I squeeze my eyes shut. “What have I done now?” I mumble.

“Don’t pretend you don’t know!” Mum snarls, “Come and look at this, and explain yourself, Gordon. I’m absolutely disgusted at you!”

Well, now I’m stumped. What can she have found that would disgust her? I haven’t looked at anything dodgy in the last few weeks… months, even… and I can’t imagine I’ll have been stupid enough to leave a trace of it on my computer for that long without noticing it. So… what is it?

I step around to the computer, and look down at the screen. “The Rainbow Room?” I raise my eyebrows. “You think that’s disgusting? It’s just like a magazine--” Oh, well, that might not have been the best thing to say. I bite my tongue, and try to correct myself. “Not a dodgy one! I really do just… read it for the articles.. It’s stuff about the LGBT Community, like, advice and history and culture. There’s nothing wrong with it! And you can’t get pissed off with me for wanting to know more about my… about my people!” I’m shaking. Why am I shaking? Are my legs gonna give out? Reaching out for the nearest chair, I grip the back of it to steady myself, and it seems to help a little bit. “Can you blame me?”

“Well, if this is what passes for culture in your community,” Mum hisses, “Then yes!” Her voice leaps to a shout in a moment, and she bangs her fist down on the table, my laptop flinching away from her. Just like I do. “Oh, don’t fucking flinch, Gordon! I’m not going to beat you!”

Maybe I would believe her if she weren’t on her feet, glaring at me, drawing herself up to her full height, and clenching her fists. It looks a Hell of a lot like she’s going to beat me, so… there’s a proverb about actions speaking louder than words, isn’t there? Yeah. Yeah, I feel like it fits right here.

I force myself to look her in the eye. “Sorry, Mum,” I whisper, “But I don’t know what you’re talking about.”

She grabs my laptop and twists it around to face me, then grabs my chin to make me look at the screen. Because I guess she doesn't trust me to look of my own accord.

What am I saying? Of course she doesn't.

But, when I look at the screen, I see what she's talking about, and I see an article I haven't seen before.

"This is what your Community calls its culture?!" Mum repeats, glaring at me and jabbing her finger at the screen. It leaves a shadow behind it, right in the middle of a message from an anonymous reader.

But slowly it comes back into focus: "Where do you stand on incest? Do you think it should be illegal if everyone involved consents?"

Iris has replied, quite simply, "If everyone involved is consenting, then nobody is getting hurt, and, since I'm not involved in anything like that, I don't think it's any of my business. And I really don't see the point of criminalising stuff that doesn't hurt anyone."

Mum slams the laptop shut with a crash, and I flinch again, as if she's slammed her fist into the side of my face.

"Don't be so fucking jumpy all the time!" she snaps, "You act like I'm abusive! And then you go and spend your time reading crap like this, and think it’s just fine!” She laughs harshly. “You’re a fucking idiot, Gordon! Do you even realise what kind of behaviour this site promotes?”

It’s all I can do to stammer my answer. “I… I wouldn’t say she promotes it, Mum, she just… doesn’t see the point of punishing people for it. That’s not the same thing.”

“Well, if you’d seen half the stuff I’ve seen, then you’d feel very differently about that, Gordon, let me tell you. I’ve seen things and heard things that would curl your hair, Gordon, kids having to report their parents, or their siblings, or their uncles, or their grandparents, or their cousins! Coming to report it as adults, but we have to turn them away, because there isn’t enough evidence to prosecute their abusers. Gordon, if you’d seen them crying as they give their statements, and then seen them crying again--” She’s actually screaming at me, now, “--as they leave the station, knowing they’re never going to get justice, because it’s been too long since the abuse happened, if you’d seen the damage it does them, then you’d know, Gordon, you would know why websites like this--” She bangs her fist down on the lid of my laptop, and my stomach twists as I think of everything precious on there, everything I will lose if she destroys it. “You would know why websites like this are so bloody dangerous! And you would understand why the people behind them should be prosecuted for being complicit!”

I stare at her. “Did you see the part where both the letter and Iris’ response talk about situations where everyone involved is consenting?” Ah. So that’s why I’m shaking. My mind’s back in the middle of Saturday afternoon, back in the middle of Wooler, and my stomach’s in the middle of a storm. “It’s not what you’re talking about at al! Of course I don’t think that should be OK! And I don’t think Iris does, either!”

“Who’s Iris?” snaps Mum.

Who’s Iris? Who’s Iris! “Well… if you’d read anything more than the first post on the website, you’d know that Iris is the writer. She runs the website. And if you look, if you read beyond the first page, you’ll see that this is actually the first fucking time she’s ever talked about it!” I wrench my laptop open, and point at the screen. Oh, and there’s a great little support to my side of today’s argument, right there in the middle. “And you’ll see--if you look at the date at the top of the post--that this article only came out today! It’s time-stamped!”

I can’t even breathe. I grab the edge of the table, and everything starts flashing in front of me, black and white and grey, like a 1960s music video It’s fucking awful, and there’s this unbelievably loud drone booming in my ears.

“Get up!” Mum shouts, aiming a kick at me. She’s still got her shoes on.

As fast as I can, I drag myself out of the way, and then I realise I’m on the floor, curled up on my side on the tiles of the kitchen floor.

“Pretending to faint won’t change a damn thing, Gordon, so get up, and stop being such a fucking drama queen!”

Homophobia? From a police officer? Groundbreaking.

I drag myself into a chair, and lean heavily on my elbows.

“That’s better.” She closes my laptop relatively gently, and then sits down opposite me at the table. “Where did you find it? Did someone introduce it to you?” Her voice is quieter now, but her tone is still clipped.

I nod without really thinking it through. I can’t tell her that Angus told me about it, can I? Because, if I tell her that, then I’ll be telling her about Angus, and, if I tell her about Angus, then she won’t stop asking questions until I’ve told her everything.

“Who?”

“We’ve got a GSA at school. Do you know what that is?”

“Of course I do. I’m not stupid. Don’t talk to me like I’m stupid.”

I nod. “OK, so, at the GSA, we have this… board, like a display board, and the idea is that anyone can go up and suggest websites or books or, well, anything, really, even physical places, that are good for LGBT people. Places where we can learn about our history, places where we can get support for problems we’re having… you know. Anything you might find in one of those leaflet stands at the doctor, but… LGBT.”

Mum blinks slowly, and juts her chin forward, to indicate I should continue.

“And the Rainbow Room was on there. But I don’t know who put it there.”

“Right. Well, if that’s the sort of thing you’re being taught, then I think I should call school right now, and ask if they know about it.”

“Mum, there’s really no need to--”

“Don’t contradict me.” She scrapes back her chair and glares at me. “I’ll take this--” She grabs my laptop and tucks it under her arm before I can protest. “Who’s in charge of this GSA?” I don’t answer, but it doesn’t matter. Mum sighs heavily, and shakes her head. “Never mind. I’ll ask.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

We have a special assembly the next morning at school, without any notice at all. As soon as the morning bell rings, the teachers are shouting for us all to line up in our year-groups, in alphabetical order, no talking, no exceptions. And then we all file into the hall and, “Sit on the floor, legs crossed nice and neatly, if you please, because we have something very important to discuss with you all.”

Mrs Paulson strides up to the podium at the front, and speaks to the clock at the back of the room. I guess she wants to avoid making eye contact with anyone. Can’t risk identifying us, I guess. “It’s been lovely to see so many of you coming to our GSA meetings in the last few weeks, and it’s been even lovelier to see you all building such a strong support network with our school’s LGBT Community.”

Someone sniggers, and I can see it’s not Chris, so I don’t need to turn around to know it’s Paul. I wrinkle my mouth, and sit up slightly straighter. We’re a proud community; that’s part of the point.

But Mrs Paulson doesn’t seem to notice. She just keeps talking, Char--who pretends not to notice, because she has to be neutral--standing in front of Year Ten, interpreting for Etta. “Something I’m particularly proud of is the big list of resources all of you have been compiling. But, unfortunately, not all resources are reliable. Some resources, in particular, can be very dangerous. You’ve grown up with the internet, children, so your generation knows that all too well.” She sighs, and pinches the bridge of her nose. “Last night, I had a call from a concerned parent, who had looked at one of the websites recommended on the resources poster… and found that it promoted illegal activities. And we can’t condone that, so I’ve called this assembly today to tell you all that you’re not to use the Rainbow Room anymore.”

“Oh, what? That’s such bullshit, Miss! What’s wrong with it?” runs around the room, and there’s a little twitch in the corner of Char’s eye that tells me she really wants to join in, and sling her own indignation at the podium.

“And that we’ve blocked it from the school’s internet,” Mrs Paulson adds, having to raise her voice to compete with shouts rising like steam from us bunch of Angry Queers. “Children! Children, be quiet!”

A shriek pierces the air, and everyone abruptly stops yelling.

Out of the corner of my eye, I see Sophie nonchalantly tucking something back in her pocket, and realise she’s got a whistle on her. I’m surprised I didn’t already know that. If I had a whistle on me, I would make sure everyone knew about it.

“Whoever that was, thank you,” Mrs Paulson says, her voice suddenly loud in the new quiet of the echoey hall. “We’ve blocked the Rainbow Room from the school’s internet, and, if anyone tries to circumvent it, or is found using their phones to access the website, there will be serious consequences. Do I make myself clear?”

The hall rings with silence, and, slowly, people start to nod. I’m one of them. A low mumble trickles across the floor, “Yes, Mrs Paulson.”

“Good,” says Mrs Paulson, “Then you can go to your lessons. If anyone has any questions, then you know where to find me.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

“What was all that about?” Lena says as we cross the quad to the classrooms, “Mrs P was all for the Rainbow Room the other day. What’s changed?”

I raise my eyebrows. Where do I even start with that? “I don’t know if you saw that letter Iris answered yesterday, but, uh… that had a lot to do with it.”

“Letter?” Lena frowns, and pulls her phone out of her pocket, shielding it with a hunched posture and one side of her blazer. “Lemme know if one of the teachers is coming, won’t you?” She opens up her browser, and goes to the Rainbow Room, which, true to form, she’s got bookmarked.

“Of course,” I say, glancing over my shoulders as casually as I can. Mr Mayes is walking at the front of the group, not looking at us.

Lena tuts as she waits for the page to load, and thumps the side of her phone with the heel of her hand. “Come on, come on, show me the letter, you ugly little bastard...” She sighs heavily, and curls her lip at the still-blank page. “I’ve brought this on myself. I’ve been looking at new phones online, and using this one to do it. Rookie mistake. It’s like making someone dig their own grave, and now, of course, the bloody thing is getting its revenge by crawling along.”

“Ooh, ooh, it’s loading!” I say, unreasonably excited by the creeping-into-view of the Rainbow Room’s heading banner…

...and then the most recent post. And the title, “The Real Iris: the Writer Behind the Rainbow Room.”

And a photo of a smiling face I recognise.

“Holy fuck, scroll down!” I hiss, hoping I’m just mistaken, hoping that I’m just seeing familiar features in a stranger’s face.

But I’m not.

It’s Gina.

And she’s written a whole article about who she really is, and why she runs the Rainbow Room, and why she’s kept her real identity secret for so long But she hasn’t given her surname--or said that Gina is actually short for Georgina--she’s just written, “My name is Gina, and I’m an eighteen-year-old writer from the UK,” and nothing more specific or identifiable than that.

But, of course, with so many people around here knowing exactly who she is… that hardly matters.

“Oh, no!” Lena whispers, putting her hand over her mouth and scrolling down. Then she comes to the letter Mum saw yesterday evening. “Is this the post you were talking about?” She frowns, and reads it through. “I wouldn’t say it promotes anything, let alone anything dangerous. Especially around here.”

I hadn’t thought of that, and it’s funny for a moment, but then I stop laughing. Much as it might be pointless to ban the Rainbow Room at a school where a decent number of students live in Chase Valley, Mrs Paulson has banned it. And she’s banned it because of my Mum. Who just so happens to be Gina’s aunt.

I groan. “Oh, God, fuck it, you may as well know. The “concerned parent” who called school and reported the Rainbow Room… that was my Mum. So, uh… if you want to send her a little thank-you letter in the form of a Jiffy bag full of--”

“I think I’ll pass,” Lena interrupts with a grimace. She shuts the browser window on her phone, and tucks it away into her pocket. “But, yeah. I kind of wondered. “Concerned parent,” indeed! Do you reckon she knows she’s going after Gina?”

“Hm… I mean… she doesn’t have a problem with going after me for stuff she thinks I’ve done, or things she thinks I’ve said. And she doesn’t hold back when she’s yelling at Tetty or Jake, so… I don’t think it matters to her, if she does know. And, if she doesn’t, it won’t change anything if she finds out. She’ll still be all, you know...” I sign “furious” and growl.

Lena nods. “I know.” She wraps her arm around my shoulder. “Are you OK?”

I shrug. “Depends what you mean by “OK”. I’m a small, angry ball of anxiety, but that’s just… fairly normal, you know?” I do a few fancy steps, and shake jazz-hands, singing, “Life is a fucking horror film!”

“It’ll turn out OK, though,” Lena says, hugging me, “Most things do. You’ll see.”

I wish I could believe her. I reckon her faith must help a lot.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

The whole house smells of hot paper when I get home from school, and a rumbling hum from upstairs tells me the printer must be running.

As I get onto the landing, I see that the door to the study is hanging open, and Mum is in there, grabbing the reams as they come out, and posting them through a guillotine, slicing them into halves. Her face is set like stone, and her brow is dark and thunderous.

“What are you doing?” My gut twists as I lean on the doorframe.

“Printing leaflets to put around the village,” she says bluntly, “To let everyone know about the village hall meeting I’m calling, tomorrow night.”

The twisting feeling gets stronger, more vigorous, and I rub my stomach in hopes it might help. But it doesn’t. “Meeting?” I repeat, voice unnaturally quiet.

“Yes,” Mum says, “Because I want to make sure everyone knows to keep their children away from that website.” She glares at me as she pulls the guillotine blade across the newest stack of prints. "Because it's vile. And I want to make sure people don't take in the messages it tries to spread." She shudders. "How the disgusting pervert behind it lives with herself, I'll never be able to understand."

"What would you think if she turned out to be someone you know?" I demand, straightening my back and folding my arms across my chest. "Someone you know quite well, actually, who just wants to make sure people get help when they need it?"

She shakes her head. "I wouldn't care. It wouldn't change anything."

"Even if it was our Gina?"

"Our Gina?" She looks at me like she's found dog shit on the bottom of her shoe. "Don't be fucking stupid. She wouldn't. She's a smart girl. She knows better than… better than that."

"Oh, so I take it you haven't looked at the website today, then," I say, stepping over to the computer and switching it on.

"What do you think you're you doing?!" Mum slaps at my hands, trying to get them away from the keyboard, but I tense my muscles and carry on regardless of the sharp pains.

"Showing you what she posted this morning," I snap, "Iris. Gina." The page loads, and suddenly the photo is huge across the screen. "Same person! Are you happy?"

Mum sniffs loudly. "Doesn't change anything." She gathers her leaflets up and bashes them down onto the desk to straighten them up. "And, anyway, I've booked the hall." She stalks out of the study, and stamps down the stairs.

I run after her, but don't reach the top stair before she slams the front door. Stumbling down the stairs and tripping on every other step, I sprint out of the door after her, but she's already out of sight by the time I get outside, and I have no idea if she's gone into one of our neighbours' houses, or headed down the High Street to leaflet there first.

"Yeah, that's right, lean on bureaucracy and paperwork!" I shout, hoping she damn well hears. "That'll definitely end well!"

Scott opens his bedroom window. "Are you OK?"

I shrug. "Who even knows at this point?!"

"Come up.”

Chapter 36: Honour: Ffion
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Homophobia / Assault / Sexual Threat / Plans to Commit Hate Crime / Attempted Murder / Strangulation / Child Abuse.

Notes:
Please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning. See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
The door of Room Eleven crashes open, and Christopher storms into the GSA meeting. “You fucking queers!” he shouts, kicking the door shut behind him and striding across the room to Gordon. “You fucking queers and your fucking cousin and your fucking website!” He grabs Gordon’s shoulders, and shakes him so hard that his head lurches backwards and there’s a sickening crack. “Do you know what you’ve done to me?”

Mrs Paulson went out of the room a minute ago. She had to go and get something from her office, but I guess Christopher doesn’t know that. He just waited for her to leave, and then darted in as soon as he was sure he could get away with it.

Lena and Sophie step in front of me, keeping me out of sight until I can crouch down and crawl under a table. If Christopher finds me here, the whole plan will crash in a fiery mess. I squat, hoping my face is out of sight. I can’t see much trouble coming from his seeing my legs. He’ll probably just think they belong to someone sitting at the table, one of the Year Sevens who are clinging to each other, feet twitching against the beige lino.

I watch from under the table, steadying myself with upturned palms against the two patches of MDF that haven’t fallen to the chewing gum pandemic. I watch as Gordon slaps Christopher across the face, and takes advantage of Christopher’s shock to grab a chair and put it between them.

“Get out,” Gordon says, “Get out of this room right now, and there won’t be any more trouble.”

Christopher sneers at him. “Yeah? Who’s gonna stop me?” He reaches into his pocket, and I press a palm over my mouth so that I won’t scream.

A knife? A gun?

We don’t find out. Thank God, we don’t find out.

Gordon shoves the chair forward, hitting Christopher in the chest so that he stumbles backwards, with no option but to reach for whatever’s behind him, which just happens to be an empty desk.

“I am quite happy to crush your chest with this chair,” Gordon says calmly, as Christopher struggles to steady his feet on the floor.

He’s staring up at the ceiling, gasping heavily, and I realise he’s winded.

Gordon looks up, and clears his throat. “If anyone would like to volunteer to remove this ugly little shit from the room before Mrs Paulson gets back, I’m sure we’ll be able to move on!” Then he giggles. “If not, then, well, as I say...” He presses the chair down hard, and Christopher squeaks in pain.

“Stop it, mate,” Timothy says, pushing Gordon away, “I’ll get him out. It’s fine. Scott? Stef? Can you get his arms? I’ll take his legs.”

The three of them drag him out, “accidentally” dropping limbs on the floor every few steps, and they don’t apologise, just shrug and grin haplessly, which is almost funny… until I realise we’ve only made Christopher angrier.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

He grabs my arm just as I’m walking to my locker, and pulls me into the nearest toilets. The boys’ toilets.

The ceiling light’s on its last legs, and the floor is covered in puddles, the whole place glowing yellowish-green, and heaving with the stomach-churning stench of sweat and stale piss. The ceiling is covered in mould and lumps of dried tissue, strips of stray toilet roll litter the floor, and all the taps are dripping or outright broken.

“What are you doing this weekend?” he whispers, pushing me against the wall and trapping me there with his arm.

He stares at my lips, and I really want to break eye contact, but I know I can’t. I have to read him right now, I have to keep an eye on him, very literally. The stink of his breath is almost worse than the stink of the dirty urinals, but I do my best to hide it from my face.

“I don’t know,” I mumble, shaking my head, “Church, I guess, and… and then… after that, I don’t know. Why?”

Christopher grins. “I was wondering if you might be up for a little, uh...” He laughs to himself. “Detective work.”

“Detective work?” I repeat, not wanting to know where this is going, but knowing I have to find out.

“Yeah, uh...” He puts on an American accent, and I guess he’s trying to mimic someone on “CSI,” or one of those other cop shows I haven’t seen. Should I have seen them? Would I know whether to run for help, or stay for information, if I had seen them? I don’t know. “Call it a hunch,” he says, “But I reckon I’ve worked it out.

“Worked what out?” I’m acutely aware that I’m just repeating words now, but I’m also acutely aware that I don’t know what he’s got in his pocket, or if he’ll stop short of using it on me if he realises that I’ve only been hanging around him to get information. What do they do to spies?

“Who “Tilly” is. I reckon I know. You know, the girl that Lena’s been fucking, the fucking dyke.”

“You don’t have to tell me which “Tilly”,” I mumble, trying not to be sick. Is this is? Has it all been for nothing? Has he worked it out before we’ve worked out how to stop him? I glance at the door, wondering if I’ve got time to dash out and warn Soph… or if I’ll even manage it before Christopher grabs me again.

Who am I trying to kid? Of course I won’t manage it. I’ll just give myself away.

“I know,” Christopher says, “You’re a smart girl. And that’s why I know you’ll say, “yes,” when I ask you to help me get evidence. ‘Cause I don’t want to do anything without evidence, you know?”

Oh, right, a would-be murderer with a code of conduct! I want to laugh. But I just nod, and mumble that it, “Makes sense, yeah.”

“Right.” Christopher smirks. “So I’m gonna go to Etta’s house and see what I can find. I’ll make sure their parents are out, obviously, but I reckon I can handle the girls on their own.”

My heart stops, and my lungs scream a gasp. “You… what?” I whisper.

“If they try to stop me,” Christopher says, “Let’s just say, I’m not gonna go there empty-handed. I’m not stupid. And it won’t take long. And, who knows? Maybe I’ll find the house empty, and I won’t have to hurt anyone until I’m sure.”

“Do you have to hurt anyone at all?”

He laughs. “I mean, it would be nice if I didn’t, but… as long as those things exist… I don’t really have much choice, do I? God’s pretty clear about what needs doing. Faggots and dykes. You know, they call them faggots because they used to through them onto the fire when they’d burn heretics at the stake? ‘Cause, you know,” he says, pausing to snigger, “A faggot’s just a bundle of shit that nobody wants. Only good for burning.”

I count my nausea away, and then force a smile, and make my sarcastic words sound as sincere as I can. “That’s very clever.” I furrow my brow. “If you’re gonna be waiting until the parents have gone out, though...” I shake my head. “I reckon I probably can’t help you. Sorry. But we go all the way to Prudhoe for our church services, ‘cause… because we’re Baptist, and… well… it’s the closest one.”

“Saturday and Sunday?”

“Of course. It’s too far to go in the week,” I explain, and it’s not even a lie, “So we go on both days. We always have. It’s just our way, I guess.”

“Fair enough,” Christopher says. He drops his arm from the wall where it’s pressed, and takes a moment to stare at my chest before he turns and walks away.

I stand there shaking, unable to move, for several minutes, I think… but then, when I finally do get out, it’s quiet in the corridor, and there’s nobody around. The first clock I see shows four o’clock, and I run into the girls’ toilets, and scrub my hands, then my face, and then my arms and legs.

But the smell of the boys’ clings to my hair even as I run home, and, by the time I get ito Chase Valley, my shirt is stuck to my back, and to my chest, and the insides of my blazer are plastered against my arms. I have bruises darkening all over the backs of my legs from where my schoolbag has bashed against them at every stride, and I can barely breathe.

Leaning heavily against a tree at the gate out of Chase Valley Woods, I pant, rubbing the heel of my hand against my aching chest. I can hear my airways crying out from exertion--no more, no more, no more--and all my muscles are howling in pain.

But I have to warn Loretta. And I have to warn Lena. And I have to warn Sophie.

So I push aside the agony and stumble down towards the bus stop, praying I’ll find them there, and that I won’t have missed the bus.

That’s another thing I never find out, actually: whether or not I missed the bus. As I approach the bus stop, a car pulls up--Mum’s car--and she opens the door, gesturing for me to get in.

“I’ve been trying to get hold of you all day,” she says, “I need you to cook supper tonight. Your Dad and I have to go to a meeting at the village hall.”

I frown as I do up my seatbelt. “I left my phone at home,” I say, kicking myself, because I could have texted Loretta so easily, could have texted anyone so easily--everyone so easily-- to warn them… but I left my phone at home this morning, because I’m an idiot. “What’s this meeting about?” I ask, even though I have a distinct feeling I already know. How many village hall meetings can there be in a single evening? “Should I come, too?”

“It’s for parents,” Mum snaps, swinging the car into our driveway, “Nothing to do with you.” She puts the handbrake on, and switches off the engine, sighing heavily. “Sorry,” she says, “I’m sorry. It’s just been a difficult day. Another job interview that went nowhere.” She stares out of the windscreen for a moment, and shakes her head. “But never mind. The Lord will provide.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

I race up the stairs to look for my phone as soon as Mum and Dad are away to the meeting, and find it on my floor, where it’s fallen down between my bedside table and my bed. Flipping it open as quickly as I can scramble it off the thin carpet, all my hope of getting in touch with anyone who can warn anyone fades as I realise the battery’s run down.

I guess it’ll have to wait until there’s enough power in it to let me send a text. Let’s not put any bets on that happening in the next two or three hours. Let’s just pray nothing happens until it does.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

When Mum and Dad get home from the meeting at the village hall, I’m carrying the vegetable stew I’ve just made over to the kitchen table when the front door clanks shut behind them.

Mum pulls Dad’s chair into the kitchen, and steers him up to the table. “Ffion, where’s your phone?” she says, not sitting down.

I put the heavy red pot on the large placemat in the middle of the table, and shake my head. “I don’t know… upstairs, charging, I guess? Why?”

“What does that matter?” Mum turns on her heel, kicks off her shoes in the hallway, and runs up the stairs.

“How was the meeting?” I ask Dad, but he doesn’t answer, just blinks with sleepy eyes, and settles uncomfortably in his wheelchair.

A few minutes later, Mum returns with my phone in her hand, and she’s clicking through it. “This thing doesn’t do the internet, does it?”

“No… Why?”

“There’s this website...” Dad says, his chest rattling as he pauses to catch his breath, “That’s been doing the rounds… encouraging all kinds of… disgusting behaviour and… Constable Benn wanted to… make sure we all knew… what was going on.” He coughs. “And your Mum wants to check… that it’s nothing to do with you.”

For once, I’m glad that my phone is about ten years too old to be internet-capable. Usually, it’s a hideous inconvenience, but right now, it’s probably the only thing standing between being able to keep my phone and warn people about what Christopher’s planning, and me being grounded with no means of communication at all.

Or, at least, that’s what I think.

Before Mum looks up and glares at me. “You’ve been texting boys?” she says, showing me my phone, and the long list of texts to and from “Tom”. Texts to and from Gordon Thomas Benn. I guess it’s paid off after all, using our middle names, but I don’t think even his Mum would be reacting like this on finding out that her son’s been texting girls.

But there’s no use in lying, and, honestly, I can’t see a reason to be ashamed anymore. What’s so awful about texting boys, anyway? Everyone else is allowed to. So I look Mum right in the eye, and nod.

“You know there’s a reason we’ve always told you not to do that, don’t you,” Mum says quietly, “So that you won’t get a reputation. So that people won’t think you’re a slut.” She almost spits the word. “Because people talk, Ffion, and it’s your responsibility to make sure they don’t talk about you.”

I look at the floor. There’s a spot of stew on the tiles by the stove. How did I miss it? I swallow hard. “I haven’t done anything that would make me a slut, Mum,” I whisper, trying not to do what I know Char would do, which is to look my Mum right in the eye and agree with her, say that I am indeed a slut, and that there’s nothing wrong with that. It’s not true, but it’s so tempting. So I guess that’s one thing that’s changed. “Tom is just a friend.”

Mum opens the first text on the list. ““I’ll see you tomorrow at the meeting.”” And then she glares. “What meeting’s this? A meeting at school? Because this was sent yesterday, Ffion, and I can’t think where else you might have been--”

“Yes, Mum, it’s the Christian Union at school,” I say quickly, “It’s a fairly new club. It just started this term. Meetings every… meetings every Friday.” I touch the cross at my neck, and hope God will forgive me for lying.

I guess He does, because Mum seems to accept my answer. “Oh. Well.” She manages something close to a smile. “That’s nice, I suppose.” And then her smile falls flat. “But I don’t think I’ve ever seen him at our church.”

Ah.

“So what church... does he go to?” Dad asks, narrowing his eyes.

I shake my head. “I’m not sure… um… but he’s a good Christian, I know that!” The blush is rising in my cheeks, and I try to take deep breaths to slow it down. The lie is getting bigger and bigger--Gordon, a Christian at all, is such a strange concept that I almost want to laugh--but my parents’ suspicion is growing, too.

“He’s a Catholic, isn’t he?” Mum says flatly, looking at my phone again. “Here he goes, talking about Lena. That’s the Szczepanski girl, isn’t it, the one that’s--” She sniffs loudly and wrinkles her nose, not wanting to say the word. “She’s a Catholic, too, or, at least, she likes to think she is.”

I nod. “Yes, Lena’s a Catholic. That doesn’t mean Tom’s a Catholic. And I don’t think he is.” Where’s this going? I really don’t like where I think this is going.

“Anglican?” Dad spits, curling his lip, “Don’t say you’re hanging around those bloody hypocrites.”

“That’s not a nice thing to say, Dad,” I mumble, looking at the floor.

“Speak up!” Mum snaps, glowering at me from across the kitchen table. “And don’t answer back!” She presses through the next few texts. “Oh. Well, that’s interesting. Why does he call you “Niamh”? How does he know your middle name?” She scowls. “Why are you getting that close to a boy? Let alone one who doesn’t go to our church?”

“Lots of people call each other by their middle names at school,” I lie, “It’s just a bit of fun, really. A way of mixing up how we talk to each other, sometimes.” My heart’s thudding, and I realise I can see my shirt pulsing with the beat of it, and I feel sick as I wonder if my parents can see it, too.

Dad narrows his eyes. “And do you call him by his middle name? Is that what “Tom” really is? His middle name? “Thomas”?”

“No,” I reply, far too quietly and far too quickly. I won’t indulge myself by imagining it sounded convincing.

“Don’t lie, Ffion,” Mum says, “It’s very ugly. And you know what God thinks of ugly things. He hates them,” she hisses, reading through the next few texts. “What’s his real name?”

I shake my head.

“What is his real name?” she snaps, scraping back her chair and marching across to my side of the table, towering over me like a shadow. “Answer me!” she shouts, grabbing the collar of my shirt and pulling me to my feet.

I can’t breathe. I can’t breathe, not with the top buttons of my shirt digging into my throat. I can’t breathe! I scrabble at my neck, at her wrists, trying to get her to let go, but she only tightens her grip, only tightens the ligature on my airways.

“His name!” she barks, “Now! His real name, right now, or I swear I’ll kill you!”

My feet slip on the floor, and I squeak in fright as my legs go out from under me. There’s wet under my shoes, on my shoes, in my shoes, all down my legs. “Mum,” I croak, and I realise my voice is gone. “Please stop! Dad! Daddy, make her stop!”

But Dad just sits there and watches, arms resting easily on the arms of his chair, eyes dry and clear and calm.

There are black spots in front of my eyes, and all I can hear is my heartbeat. Is this it? Is this how I die? Is this--

Chapter 37: Body
Summary:
Trigger Warning: Attempted Murder / Child Abuse / Strangulation / Serious Injury / Broken Bones / Gore / False Imprisonment / Abduction / Assault / Sexual Threat / Sexual Assault / Attempted Rape / Homophobia / Homophobic Hate Crime / Burns / Mutilation / Hospital / Death.

Notes:
Please, please, please skip this chapter if you feel you will be upset by the content listed in the trigger warning.
See Chapter Summary.

Chapter Text
There’s blood. There’s blood on the carpet and a pungent smell hanging all around the room, in her clothes and in her hair.

She blinks, and she coughs, and she tries to put her hands to her throat to soothe it, but… oh, God, she can’t… she can’t get them to do as she wants. She coughs again, and blinks again, and squints around the room that she slowly recognises as her own. It feels like it must be morning, but it’s dark in her room, and the curtains are drawn, revealing only the slightest hint of daylight.

And, as her eyes adjust, she sees what’s restricting her movement: a pair of shoelaces, fixing her wrists individually to the railings at the foot of her bed. They’re tied too far apart for either hand to undo the lace around the other, but she has to get out. She just has to! She pulls. She tugs. She twists. But all she gets for her trouble is a scarlet burn across the vein-blue insides of her wrists, and she cries out in pain, and coughs again.

It’s a rough sound, like her throat has been rubbed down with sandpaper, and it hurts so much, it feels like her next cough might bring up blood. Nevertheless, she forces herself to shout.

“Help! Someone, please, help me! Anyone!” She breaks off, tiny, thin body wracked by choking, hacking croups that drink away her fading strength. But, even with fog clouding her thoughts, she has enough of her mind left to realise that there is nobody around to hear her, nobody around to help her, and, in fact, nobody around at all. As she squints at the door, she spots a tiny sliver of metal between the door and the doorframe: the deadbolt her mother installed three years ago, last time she “got ideas into her head”.

The door is locked. She’s tied to her bed. The curtains are closed. And she’s home alone. Escaping will be almost impossible. Almost. And, in that difference between “almost” and “absolutely” impossible, is the chance to save lives.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Two girls wake up to birdsong, their arms wrapped around each other’s waists, Lena’s head resting on the Sophie’s chest. This is how they’ve slept, all night long, the deep and heavy sleep of a warm night in midsummer, when the sunset was slow and the church bells soft in the distance.

This is how they’ve overslept, and, though Sophie’s parents were happy for her to sleep at Lena’s house, they won’t be happy if she turns up late to work. Of course, it’s Lena who realises this first, blue eyes lurching open as she sits bolt-upright, panting.

“What’s the time?” she exclaims, untangling her legs from Sophie’s, and clambering off the bed as Sophie, much slower to wake than her girlfriend, blinks and mumbles indistinctly.

Sophie sits up, wrapping her arms around her tucked knees, and rubbing sleep from the inner corners of her eyes, still shadowed with the sooty traces of yesterday’s mascara and kohl. “Pass us my glasses, would you, sweetie?” She reaches a blind hand out, flexing her fingers in the golden path of light trickling through a crack in the curtains.

Lena obliges, and the two girls put their glasses on at the same time, grinning as their faces each come into focus for the other.

Lena sighs happily, straightening out the oversized T-shirt she wore to bed last night, and pressing her clasped hands against her chest. “You look unreasonably gorgeous for this early in the morning.” And then she giggles. “Which, actually… might not be that huge an achievement...” She turns around slowly, searching the room for her phone. Because I haven’t a clue what time it is.“

Finally, she finds it, and grimaces in such a way that Sophie guesses it’s half-past ten already.

“Ten to eleven,” Lena says, rubbing the heel of her hand through her messy blonde hair. “Oh, dear.”

“Ten to eleven?!” Sophie exclaims, “Ten to eleven?! Please say you’re joking?”

Lena widens her eyes. “I would never joke about it being ten to eleven, darling.”

Sophie buries her face in her palms, and she groans. “Oh, no, no, no! I’m going to be so late! My shift started five minutes ago! Or it was meant to!” She jumps out of bed, and pulls off her pyjamas, jigging into a pair of black skinny jeans and a burgundy blouse emblazoned with Chase Valley Tea Rooms: proud to be a family business.” Tying her hair into a high bun, she kisses Lena on the cheek, and pulls her into a tight hug. “Oh, I’m gonna miss you today!”

“You say that like you fancy me or something,” Lena says with a grin. She slips her arms around Sophie’s waist, scooping her up so that her feet swing freely off the floor, and they both laugh, Sophie bending her head to press her lips against Lena’s.

And then, “Oh, my goodness, darling, put me down!” she exclaims, “I’m gonna be late!” She scrambles to the floor, darts over to the chest of drawers, and grabs her gold crucifix from the little dish where Lena puts her own every night, last thing before she goes to sleep. Prayers, glasses, lights out, crucifix off.

Just as she’s about to close the clasp and secure it around her neck, she catches Lena’s eye, and beams. “I have an idea,” she says, stepping behind Lena and lowering the necklace over her head, around her neck, instead. “Wear this, so that I can be with you today, instead of--” She wrinkles her nose as if she hates the job she quite enjoys, “--brewing coffee for our grumpy, hungry neighbours all afternoon.” She closes the necklace, sweeps aside long, blonde hair, and kisses the nape of her neck, humming with happiness at the warm, familiar scent of Lena’s perfume.

“And you should wear mine!” Lena says brightly, spinning around to kiss Sophie again. “Wait a moment,” she says, finding her crucifix where it was intertwined with Sophie’s until a moment ago. And she holds it up like an amulet, her smile just as bright and lucky as a talisman.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

“Is she gone?” Gordon cranes his neck down the High Street, squinting into the distance as his mother’s car fades away down the road. “She’s gone! She’s buggered off to work for the whole day!” he crows triumphantly, swinging his leg over the back of Scott’s bike and clapping his hands on Scott’s shoulders. “Go, go, go, go, go!”

Scott pedals off up the High Street, only to screech to a halt outside the corner shop. “Oh, shit, sorry, Mum!”

“Blimey, Scott, cycle responsibly, please!” Rose Noon tuts at her son, shaking her head. “But at least you’re wearing your helmets, both of you. Where are you off to in such a hurry?”

Gordon and Scott exchange nervous looks, both wondering if they should tell her. Should they tell her? Would she judge them? ...Do they have to tell her the whole truth? This isn’t a courtroom, after all. It’s Chase Valley High Street, and Scott’s Mum is as far from the “solemn as a judge” aphorism as it is possible to be.

She grins at them. “You’re not going off for a secret adventure, are you?”

“You got us,” Gordon says, following a peiece of advice he found in a Lemony Snicket book when he was younger. He’s forgotten which one, and he’s forgotten the exact wording, but he’s never forgotten the gist: the best way to keep a secret is to make sure you tell it to everyone, as if it’s a joke. “We’re running away to Gretna Green.”

Which is a joke. They’re going to see Angus, like they’ve been going to see Angus every chance they’ve had for months. And, now, of course, they’re wondering how they managed to go so long without realising why they wanted to. In hindsight, it’s obvious.

Rose laughs. “Well, I’ll give you a lift as far as Kirk Yetholm, but, if anyone asks, I was very vocal in my disapproval.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Ffion snaps through the second shoelace with a grunt, and a jolt of pain through her teeth. Hands finally free, she rubs her jaw, wincing as her fingerhrints press against the muscles that are aching after hours of chewing.

Who knew shoelaces were so tough? With a sinking heart, she realises she recognises them, and she realises that her parents must have taken them out of the brogues that mysteriously appeared on the doorstep weeks ago.

And what’s happened to her brogues? To her other shoes? To the clean, new, soft shoes that seemed to come out of nowhere, that might have fallen from the sky, like a gift from God.

Well… Well, she thinks to herself… Where is God now? Where is God, watching her struggle to break free of ligatures that her parents put around her wrists after her father sat by and watched while her mother strangled her until she lost consciousness? Where has God been for any of this?

Now she understands. Now she understands why Gordon doesn’t believe, can’t believe. Now she understands, and the rage of it fills her like petrol, and she gets shakingly to her feet, and kicks at her bedroom door, kicking and kicking and kicking in the hopes she can get it open, can break it down, can get out of here, and get a message to someone, anyone, warning Etta about what Chris has asked her to do.

Because she knows. She knows he won’t just give up, just because he hasn’t got her there with him, to help him search for evidence of an Etta who doesn’t exist. And she knows that, eventually, he’ll work out who “Tilly” really is, and then there won’t be anything anyone can do to stop him.

She knows, and she kicks, and she kicks, until she has no more strength in her legs, and then she collapses onto the carpet, sprawled on her back, staring at the window.

The window, with its beautiful, brilliant pane of beautiful, breakable glass… and suddenly it’s obvious.

Ffion scrambles to her feet, grabs a drawer from the chest by her bed, and tips the contents onto her mattress. She’s seen it done before. She’s seen films with battering rams, seen the power of brute force and determination, and, while she might not have much strength left, she’s never had a shortage of determination.

The glass gives way, and spills out onto the street, the larger shards shatter on the cobblestones, and the summer day breathes warm air into her bedroom. Bright, vicious teeth glint in the sunshine, and she bashes the rest of them out of the window-frame, bash, bash, bash, until they’re all gone, and the frame is clear.

Gordon climbs out of his bedroom window, doesn’t he? Ffion’s heard him say so plenty of times, about plenty of occasions: sneaky little outings; jogs when he wants to avoid his mother; times when he just can’t be bothered to take the stairs. “The window’s just so much more fun,” he always says, grinning giddily while ignoring the indignant shouts of everyone around him.

“So much more fun,” Ffion whispers to herself, squeezing her eyes shut and trying to tell herself that, “more fun,” might just mean “easier”. She clambers up onto the window-ledge, grips the frame so tightly that her fingers feel like they might snap, and slowly swings her legs over into the outdoors.

She mutters to herself, “Don’t look down, don’t look down, don’t look down,” as she twists around, and carefully lowers her feet. Her knuckles turn white, her fingertips purple, and her toes search for a foothold against the brickwork of the front wall. “Don’t look down.” There’s s all over the pavement. “Don’t look down.” There’s twenty-odd feet between the windowsill and the ground. “Don’t look down.” She’s got to climb down if she’s to stand any chance of warning anyone about anything. She’s got to--

Her foot settles on nothing, and it’s enough. She doesn’t scream, and that’s what shocks her most. It’s not the fall. It’s the fact that she doesn’t scream, and the fact that the only noise she hears as she falls is a short, sharp gasp.

She lands.

And the pain is unbelievable, and the pain is all over her body, and her body is on fire and her body is freezing and her body is broken into a thousand pieces and she can’t breathe and her lungs are full and her heart is pounding and there’s blood all around her and she’s bleeding and she’s bleeding, but…

...but somehow she’s still alive. She’s still alive, and, as she tries to move each of her limbs, each of her fingers, each of her toes, she realises she can. It just hurts more than she can quantify. But it’s still possible.

And she has somewhere to be. Right now. While there’s still time.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Splinters of pain dart up her right leg at every step, shooting from her throbbing ankle up her shin to her knee, and she can’t put her full weight on it, not that she’s got much strength to do it. She drags herself to her feet, leaning on her left, and limps up the High Street, pulling her right leg along behind her until she reaches the neck of Chase Valley Road. But, even from the entrance to the cul-de-sac, she can see that a certain car is missing, and she knows a certain house must be unoccupied.

She looks around, eyes wild, heart pounding. She needs to warn someone as soon as she can.

She heads for Gordon’s house, and slaps the wood of the door with her open palm. Wincing at every strike, and then pulls her hand away and stares at it.

It's covered in glass… No… it’s full of glass, and it's dripping blood. Her skin is blazing like a heath-fire. But how did she get this far without noticing it? There isn't time to wonder.

Voices are coming closer and closer, and she recognises one of them all too well.

She last heard it in a dank and putrid bathroom, all too close for comfort, and she knows exactly whose it is. How could she not? She’s been listening to it with the attention of a storm-tossed sailor deciphering the shipping forecast for the last few weeks. And she knows the plans its owner has made. And she knows it’s too late to run and get help from any of her friends. Because she can’t run.

But maybe she can hide. The house the voice is heading for is empty, after all.

She staggers up to Number Twelve, Chase Valley Road, and jabs the doorbell, just in case. A light flashes inside, but nobody comes to the door, and Ffion’s heart sinks. She knows it’s ironic that she’s stopping Chris breaking into a house by breaking into it herself, and she hates herself for intruding like this, but what else can she do?

Her bare feet are bleeding, all those almost-healed blisters and weals opening up and leaving a trail of red behind her. Every single step makes her want to scream, but she swallows down the agony, and touches the cross at her neck, thinking of Jesus and His long walk to Calvary, dragging His own cross on his back. How He did it to save her. And how she can do this to save her friends.

So she grinds her teeth, reaches up onto her tiptoes, and heaves herself into the house through the open window of the downstairs bathroom, aluminium frame pulling her stained blouse aside as the catch grates her stomach. Gasping and whimpering with the pain, she slips and crashes down onto the tiled floor, smacking her hip against the sink under the window. For one moment, she lets herself curl into a small ball and sob, pressing her hand over her mouth so that she won’t make as much noise, and then she forces herself to stand, pulling the bathroom window shut behind her before she goes in search of a phone.

Nobody is at home, but at least she might find a phone.

Limping through the house, she looks on every wall and every table for a landline, but there isn’t one. But of course there isn’t. Only two of the four people in this house can hear. What good would a landline be?

Glass shatters at the back of the house, and Ffion freezes. The kitchen door is open just slightly, just enough for her to see in, and she watches in horror as Chris… and Paul Benn… clamber in through the window they’ve smashed.

Is there time to grab something heavy and brandish it? A chance of anyone coming to help if she screams? Can an angel appear to her right now, and give her a phone, so that she can call the police?

It doesn’t matter. Of course it doesn’t matter.

The kitchen door swings open, and there’s Chris, standing right in front of her.

“What the fuck happened to you?” he exclaims, “And why the fuck aren’t you at church? Change of plan? Come on. We’re going upstairs. I know where her bedroom is.”

“No,” Ffion says, swallowing hard, “I won’t let you do this. You can’t do this.”

Chris just laughs. “I can, and I will, and if you want to stand in my way… well, then… I guess I’ll just have to, uh...” With a grin, he steps back for a moment, and then, just as Ffion thinks he might be changing his mind and leaving, he grabs a hank of her fine hair, close to the scalp, and pulls, hard.

And slams her head into the--

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Lena turns over another page of her book, and pushes her sunglasses back up the bridge of her nose. It’s a hot day, and her face is dewy with a fine sheen of sweat, and the frames keep slipping down. At least there’s a breeze, something to move the air, or even sitting in the garden, under the dappled shade of the big silver birch tree, would be intolerable. She takes a long, slow sip from the tumbler of iced tea she’s brought out with her, and pokes her earbuds back into place. They’re slipping out, too, because, apparently, it’s one of those days.

Later, she thinks, she’ll go stargazing with Sophie, and they’ll plan their summer holidays together. Six long weeks stretch ahead of them and they only have to get through three more days at school. And the final one? Well, that ends at lunchtime, and then it’s freedom, freedom, freedom…

Lena grins, and turns up her music, settling back on the grass, holding the book up to shield her eyes as she reads it. The shadow falls across her face.

And then a bigger shadow falls across her whole body, and she drops her book onto the grass, sitting bolt upright and ripping out her headphones.

“Hello, Jane,” Chris says, leering at her, “I thought you and I might have a little chat. What do you say?”

Lena scrambles to her feet, and dashes for the thin path at the side of her house. The gate swings open, hinges creaking in the breeze. Is that how Chris got in?

Chris grabs her shirt and drags her down, pinning her wrists against the concrete slabs of the patio. Crazy paving, stray weeds and sharp edges covered with moss as damp as a cold sweat. He traps her with one forearm. It’s effortless for him. “If you’re tempted to scream for your parents,” he hisses, digging through his pocket with his free hand, “Or for Mr Mayes… go ahead. I won’t stop you. I’ll just make it--” He presses a blade against her throat. Pen-knife. “Very hard, OK?”

Eyes wide, Lena nods, swallows hard, and starts to recite, “Hail Mary, full of grace, the Lord is with Thee,” as Chris yanks her to her feet, and shoves her out into the road. As she stumbles, she bites back tear, knowing it wouldn’t make a difference if she did scream for help here. Her Mum and Dad are at work, Archie’s on a date, the Cartwrights are all in their tea-rooms, and… she has no idea if Mr Mayes is at home. Pastor Mayes certainly isn’t. Nobody is around, and nobody is coming.

“Keep your head down,” he mutters, “And walk like you want to be walking. You won’t like what happens if anyone gets the wrong idea.”

“OK,” Lena whispers, still praying.

“Turn onto the High Street and go into the woods,” Chris says, tucking his knife away as he strolls nonchalantly along with his hands in his pockets. And his eyes on Lena. “But don’t fucking think about running away. Because I know who “Tilly” is. And I’ll do whatever I want to her if you don’t cooperate.”

The nausea hits Lena like a punch in the face, but she forces herself to keep walking, keep her gaze fixed on the pavement and the cobblestones and the cracks in the kerb, until the path turns into a dirt track, and leads her through a gate.

Chris glances over his shoulder, and then grabs the collar of Lena’s blouse, pulling his knife out of his pocket again, and pressing the blade hard against her back. But not into her back. Not yet.

And she feels the “yet” like she feels her heart thudding.

Now that there’s nobody else around, Chris shoves Lena deeper into the woods at knifepoint, away from the tracks tamped down by generations of villagers walking to and from Wooler, between the trees until they come to thick undergrowth, land untouched, and she realises he’s brought her here to… to…

Dear God, no. She tries to turn around to look at him, but he shoves her in the back, and her knees crash into roots and rocks and brambles and nettles and it hurts so much, and she screams, but the sound of it dies in her throat as Chris forces her face into the dirt.

And then she’s sobbing and she doesn’t want to cry; she wants to stare him down and spit in his face and slash at his face with her nails until there’s nothing left but a bare skull, and she wants to be strong, but she just can’t. Her skin is breaking out into hives and she’s bleeding and bleeding, and the cuts are all over her face and her arms and her legs, and all she can think is, “Thank God I closed my eyes in time.”

But then Chris grabs her by the hair and drags her up, snapping at her to turn over and lie on her fucking back,”Get on your fucking back, dyke bitch, or I’ll fucking slit you throat right here; don’t think I won’t.”

Shaking and whimpering, Lena struggles onto her back and looks at the sky. At least she can look at the sky. At least she won’t have to look at him while he… while he…

“Please don’t,” she whispers, “Please don’t I’m begging you.”

Chris doesn’t answer.

Numb is not the right word. Her body hasn’t gone numb, because she can feel it, feel all the pain screaming over her skin, but she can’t… she can’t move. Why can’t she move?

For a horrible, fleeting moment, she thinks she must have broken her back on a root, and this must be it, and she’ll never walk again, but then she realises it doesn’t matter if she never walks again, because she can’t get away.

If she’s ever going to get help, she’ll have to scream with all her strength, not that there’s much left.So she starts praying out loud, just whispering, because she’s got to save her voice for screaming, hasn’t she?

Her heart crumples under Chris’ weight, and she knows nobody will hear her if she does scream. Nobody except…

“Blessed art Thou amongst women, and blessed is the fruit of Thy womb, Jesus Christ. Holy Mary, Mother of G--”

Chris punches her in the face, and somewhere she finds the brass to spit at him.

With a grunt, he holds the knife against her throat, and a root sticks into the nape of her neck. “Now you’ve done it. Now you’ve fucking done it.”

Lena fights for air. “What do you want from me?”

“I want to know who she is,” Chris hisses.

“Who who is?” Lena’s eyes are burning, and a fine trickle of red dribbles across her cheek. Her nose? Is it her nose that’s bleeding or--

“Who do you fucking think?!” demands Chris, throwing his full weight on top of her, ““Tilly”! Who is she? Who’s the dyke slut you’ve been fucking? Good Catholic girl!” He digs the tip of the blade in, and twists.

“You said you already knew,” Lena whispers.

“I lied!” Chris snarls, pinning Lena’s wrists, “So you’re gonna tell me who she is, and I promise you, it will hurt so much more if you fight me. So who is she?”

His breath is stale, like cigarette smoke and unbrushed teeth, and there’s a look in his eyes like he’s going to… oh, God, not him, not a boy, no, God, no… You can’t let him do this.

She writhes, and shrieks, a sharp sound tearing free from her throat and running through the trees.

Chris grabs a hank of Lena’s long, blonde hair, and holds the knife against it. “Don’t think I won’t do it. Who is she?”

It’s only hair. Lena shuts her eyes, and says nothing.

“I said...” Chris slices through the hair and throws it aside. It lands in the dirt, and he grabs her wrists again. “Who is she?”

“What’s it to you?” Lena hisses, staring right at Chris. She’s shaking with fury as much as fear now. “You don’t even know her.”

“Do you really want to answer me back,” snarls Chris, “When I’m on top of you? You know what I can do, don’t you?” And as if Lena’s sobs and struggles spur him on, he reaches downwards.

She freezes. Please no--

And then he shows her a lighter. “Maybe this will make you talk,” he says, holding down the flint wheel and pressing the flame into her arm.

Blistering pain burns white-hot through her skin. “Hail Mary,” Lena whispers, teeth gritted, “Full of grace--” She screams as the flame shifts, ravaging new territory, nearer to the tender skin at the crook of her arm.

“Go ahead and scream,” jeers Chris, “Nobody will hear you, remember? We’re all the way out here in the woods, and it’s just you and me. So scream. That’s fine with me. Or you can talk. Because this will be over much faster if you do.”

Lena writhes in agony, and the flames are in her head and they’re blazing away inside her skull, heartbeat a hammer against a gong, clashing in her ears. “The Lord is with Thee,” she continues, just trying to breathe. As long as she can breathe, she can survive. “Blessed art Thou--”

“You don’t have the right,” growls Chris, pressing his elbow into Lena’s throat, “Even to say Her name. You’re not worthy of Her. You’re a fucking sinner, a fucking dyke, and no fucking better than that faggot, Gordon.”

Lena squeezes her eyes shut. “Blessed art Thou amongst--” She breaks off, and howls. More burning. How can there be more burning? More of anything? “Amongst women!” she yells, “Blessed! And blessed! Is the… is the fruit of Your womb… Jesus Chris. Holy Mary...” She sobs as she tries to claw her way away from the pain, but, of course, she gets nowhere. “Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners now and at--”

“Stop it!” Chris shouts, “I’m not going to fucking kill you, you faggot bitch. You’re no use to me dead! Now, for the last time, tell me her name. Or stay still.” He digs his nails into her wrist, trapping her arm. “I told you to stay still.” Then, bending his head, he broils her skin again.

It lasts forever. Lena sees herself die and she sees the forests burn and she sees the sky turn dark with smoke and ash and despair and then night falls and there are no stars, there are no stars, and she is alone, and nobody is coming.

Nobody even knows where she is.

“There,” Chris says, panting as he releases her arm. “Now everyone can see it. Now everyone will know what you are.”

“Please...” Lena wails, “Please, just let me go. I’m begging you.”

“Are you going to tell me who your precious “Tilly” is?” Chris grabs another handful of Lena’s hair and holds it taut over her throat.

She thinks she remembers something like this in a poem. Something about Porphyria… and her jealous lover who strangled her with her own hair. Well, Lena won’t let Chris do it. “Fuck you,” she spits.

Chris laughs in her face. “I think that was the wrong answer, don’t you?” He kneels, and forces Lena’s legs apart, yanking up the fabric of her skirt. “I gave you a choice,” he whispers, “You had a choice. And you chose this.”

Finally free of Chris’ weight, Lena’s heart leaps, and she scrambles backwards, and tries to kick him, but her clothes are tangled in the undergrowth, and her burned arm is screaming. She doesn’t get far before he grabs her ankles, and she can’t move on her arms alone.

The world flashes black and grey as the burning starts again. But this time it’s not her arm. It’s her thigh, the inside of her thigh, and he’s pulling the flame upwards like a scalpel, cutting her with fire, getting closer and closer, and she knows he’s not going to stop. Why would he stop short of destroying the part of her that he hates most?

And now she screams. She screams, and she thrashes, and she screams and screams and screams, and she convulses, and her crucifix slips across her chest. It flashes in the sun. It flashes gold. Because it’s not her crucifix.

Chris throws the lighter aside, and sits back on his haunches. “You really are determined, aren’t you? You fucking whore.”

Lena lies on her back, chest heaving as she stares at the sky, wondering how the treetops can still be spinning around her when the world has just… stopped. She doesn’t hear him. She doesn’t see him. She just lies completely still as her breathing slows and the ground beneath her disappears.

And, then, Chris sees the crucifix glinting as it catches the light. And it’s a crucifix he knows. He kneels on Lena’s stomach and grabs the pendant, turning it over in his hands, to make sure.

Three initials are engraved on the back: “S.M.W.”

“I think we’ll leave it there,” he says, patting Lena’s cheek in a parody of affection. “You’ve helped a lot. Thank you.” And he grabs what remains of her hair, and slashes it off at the scalp, for good measure.

Chris jogs away, and Lena lies there, bleeding.

Until the sky really does turn black.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Deep purple shadows shift across the burgundy carpet as the floral lacy curtains flutter in the breeze. The smell of frankincense hangs in the air, and the faintest music whispers from a phone charging on the desk. It must be on the lowest volume setting. It’s barely audible, barely there, like a footprint melting away into wet sand, but it is audible, is there, just about.

Sophie, exhausted from a five-hour shift at the tea-rooms after a night--but what a night--of little sleep, lies on her side, curled up with one pillow between her knees, and another wrapped in her arms. Her breathing is deep and slow, and her eyes, still with yesterday’s makeup smeared around the lashes, are closed.

She’s been asleep since she came back from the tea-rooms, or very nearly. She’s still wearing her uniform, having only paused to pull off her sneakers before falling onto her bed and snuggling into the softness of the duvet.

She’s been asleep since she came back, and she’s still asleep, dozing on even as her bedroom door opens.

Chris gazes around, taking in all the photos in all their frames. They’re dotted around the shelves, and on every available surface, photos of flowers, photos of Sophie as a newborn baby, with her birth mother. A photo of Sophie and Lena at their First Communion.

Photos--much more recent--of Sophie’s hands, small and soft and sorrel-coloured, twined in slightly larger, paler, pinker hands covered in beige freckles. Both wrists adorned in bangles and bracelets, all fingers shining with rings.

Girls’ hands, intertwined. Girls’ arms linked. Girls smiling, girls laughing, girls holding each other.

Girls. Kissing.

Tiptoeing nearer to the bed, Chris peers at Sophie. He wonders what she’s dreaming about. And with a lump in his throat, he realises she’s not dreaming of him. She hasn’t dreamed of him in a long time.

He picks up the nearest photo frame, and stares at it.

Sophie and Lena in the woods by Prudhoe Castle. The ruins are just visible through the trees. Sophie’s lips are pressed against a smiling Lena’s cheek, and sunbeams fall between the breeze-blown leaves of birches.

Chris can almost hear the birds singing. Blackbirds. Finches. Skylarks.

“So fucking happy,” he mutters.

For a moment, he strokes the photo, tracing the outline of Sophie’s face with his fingertips. Remembering the last time she let him touch her. And what came afterwards. Remembering…

But he doesn’t need to remember right now. He has the real Sophie, right in front of him. She’s asleep on top of her blankets, hair still in the bun she wears for every shift, but starting to come down where she’s moved her head against the pillows.

Chris smiles at her, and puts the photo frame back on the bedside table where he found it.

Can he? Can… Can he just--

He reaches out to touch Sophie’s face, but stops short. He can’t touch her. Whether that’s because he wants, somewhere inside, to hold back, or because of something else entirely… even divine intervention… he knows he’ll never even begin to understand.

Why does he want to touch her? Why would he touch her? She broke his fucking heart. And now she’s fucking another girl.

Bile rises in Chris’ throat, and he clenches his fists. How can she just… How can anyone just--

Maybe he makes a noise. Maybe it’s a coincidence.

But, right at that moment, Sophie’s eyes open. She scrambles off the bed, and screams and screams and screams. “Get out! Get the fuck out! Get out of my room and get out of my house! Just get out!” She picks up her pillows and throws them at him, shoves him in the chest, slaps him in the face, tries to scratch him, but he pushes her right back, and she tumbles onto the bed. And now the screams are not screams of anger. They’re screams of pure terror, pure terror that sets Chris’ blood on fire, makes his heart beat so fucking fast that he suddenly realises he should have done this a long time ago.

“Shut up!” Chris yells, “Shut up! Just shut up! Do think I’m in here, fucking raping you?!” With a rush of adrenaline, he realises he can. Nobody is here to stop him. He locked the front door behind him when he came in. And he’s a lot bigger than she is. If she’s going to fuck girls, then he can fuck her, can’t he? He grabs her arms and pins her down, scrabbles at the button of her jeans, but can’t get them undone.

And suddenly the thought that he could is gone, replaced by her screams echoing around his head, loudening every time she breathes, every time she screams again. “Shut the fuck up!” Chris shouts.

Sophie doesn’t shut up. She keeps on screaming, and she yanks an arm free. Hoping she’ll get his eyes, or even just catch him hard enough to make him bleed, she slashes at Chris’ face with her long, varnished nails. If she can… she’ll be able to make a run for it. She has to try. She just has to. Otherwise.

Otherwise.

“I said shut up!” Chris drops Sophie’s arms and grabs the nearest hard thing he finds. The photo frame.

Tears and screams and shards of glass. And then silence.

No screaming. No struggling. Nothing.

Sophie lies limp on the bed, her whole face drenched in scarlet. There’s a dent by her left ear, and blood is streaming from her temple. From her eye. From her nose. From the corner of her mouth. And she’s not moving. She’s not even breathing.

A ragged cry. A tattered photograph. Two girls ripped apart.

Chris sinks to his knees, collapsing into the shattered glass. He doesn’t even feel it biting into his flesh. He puts his face in his hands, and sobs, head between her legs.

And then there’s a crash downstairs, and someone yells, “This is the police! Stay where you are!”

Chris doesn’t need telling twice. He sits back on his haunches, seeing the bloodstains on his jeans for the first time, and rests the palms of his hands on the tops of Sophie’s thighs. Steadying himself. Grounding himself. Waiting.

When foreign hands grab his arms and pull them behind his back, and cold metal clicks against his wrists, he shuts his eyes.

At least he’s managed one good thing. Whatever they do with him now, he’s managed one good thing. It’s just a shame it had to be Sophie.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Tim grabs Char and Stefan’s hands as they run out into the street. “There’s an ambulance on its way,” he says, “And Mr Mayes is with her.”

Char’s eyes are huge and full of tears. “What? Who’s he with? Who is it?”

“Lena?” whispers Stef.

But Tim shakes his head. “It’s Sophie,” he says, wiping his shirt cuffs across his cheeks. “Chris has been arrested. Um. I don’t know what for.” He swallows hard. “I think it’ll depend what happens now. What happens… with Sophie.”

Stefan hugs both of them. “Chris… Chris went after her because she’s “Tilly”, didn’t he? She’s Lena’s girlfriend.” He squeezes his eyes shut, and then looks up at the windows of Sophie’s house. “Can we go and sit with her? Make sure she’s OK?”

“Stef… She’s really not OK. When I saw her, she was...” He’s shaking, and pulling his friends closer to him. “She looked… She looked like a completely different person. She looked...” He sighs, and shakes his head again. “It’s not the sort of image you’ll get out of your head. Best to wait… best to wait until she’s been treated. At the hospital. That’s what the police said.”

There’s a tightness in his jaw that Char notices. And Char knows what it means, what it implies about his thoughts. His worries. His fear that Sophie might not… might not get that far.

“Is she awake, at least?” Char’s voice cracks, and she looks at the house as well.

“No, sweetie,” Tim says, “She’s unresponsive. Eyes closed. Not moving. She’s in a bad way.”

Running footsteps pound into Wimbledon Crescent, and the three friends look up just in time to see Will and Margaret Cartwright racing into their house. They shut the front door behind them, and their footsteps fade away up the stairs.

Wailing comes from the open window of Sophie’s room, “Oh, God, no, no, no!” and Char shivers, even though today is the year’s hottest yet.

“We’ve got to tell the others,” she says, “Tell them what’s happened, before… before there’s any other news.”

Tim nods. “Etta’s in Newcastle, for Angie’s birthday. I think they’re catching a show or something, but they won’t be back until this evening.” He sighs. “At least we know they’re all OK.” Then he pulls away from the group, and leans on the doorbell by the Szczepanskis’ front door. He rings for almost a full minute, but there’s no sign that anyone’s in, and eventually, he gives up, shaking his head. “We can call her, find out where she is,” he says, “In the meantime… Ffion, Scott and Gordon.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Char rattles the knocker against Ffion’s front door, again and again and again. Then she tries the doorknob, just in case the McDades are just busy.

Preoccupied.

She can imagine it, Ffion and her Mum upstairs, taking care of Ffion’s Dad, each torn between going to answer the door, leaving the other one to nurse him alone, and ignoring the knocking, missing the person on the doorstep.

But there’s no answer, and she realises, stomach sinking, that it’s a Saturday. And where does Ffion go on Saturdays? Prudhoe. She’ll be in church.

“Let’s go and look for Scott,” Tim says, putting his arm around her shoulders, and guiding her back down the McDades’ driveway.

Stef takes Char’s hand, and links his arm through Tim’s, as the three of them make their way up to Chase Valley Road. None of them notice that the McDades’ car is parked on the drive. But why would they? Maybe someone gave the family a lift to church today.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Rose Noon shakes her head. “No, Scott’s in Kirk Yetholm with Gordon. I think they went for coffee or something.” She frowns, studying Char’s face, then Stefan’s, and finally Tim’s. “You’re welcome to come in and use the phone if you need to tell them something urgently.”

Char shakes her head vigorously. “Thanks, Rose, but it’s not something you’d want to hear over the phone. It’s… um…” Her shoulders slump, and her eyes fill up again. “It’s Sophie. She’s hurt. Badly hurt.”

In the distance, the sirens wail, and an ambulance rattles out of Wimbledon Crescent, and away into the distance.

The colour drains from Rose’s face. “Badly hurt...” she repeats, “Badly… enough… that she needs an ambulance?”

Tim nods. “Badly enough that she might...” He takes a long, slow, shaky breath. “Auntie Rose… Chris went after her. And he beat her up something awful.”

“Oh, God, you poor kids,” Rose says, stepping into the front garden and wrapping her arms around all three of them. “Here, I’ll give you a lift up to Kirk Yetholm. We’ll go and fetch the boys together.”

“Is Lena with them?” Tim asks.

Rose shakes her head. “They didn’t say so, but maybe she’s met them there. Come on. Let’s get moving.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Through the window, Angus watches the sun sinking away behind the black silhouettes of oaks and pines on the horizon. It’s dark in his room--aside from a few strings of golden-white fairy lights stretched across the wall by my bed--but he doesn’t need the main lamp on.

Shadows wait for him on the duvet, sleepy shadows with open arms, and he longs to join them, every second of even such a tiny task as closing the windows so that that three of them can doze together, an ache. He never thought… he never thought he’d… two? And yet…

They’re lying on his blankets, Gordon’s head in Scott’s lap, just as Angus’ was in Gordon’s until the bright amber streetlights came on outside his window, and started spilling its glow into Angus’ bedroom.

But now he can’t wait one more minute to hold them, to press his cheek against the soft flannel of Gordon’s shirt, to breathe in the crisp, citrusy smell of Scott’s deodorant, to hold one of each of their hands tight in the centre of his chest. He turns around, watching his own shadow shift on the carpet, illuminating and darkening and illuminating again his darlings--one blond, one brunet, both smiling at him and holding their arms out to him--as he moves.

It’s Gordon’s fingers that reach him first, threading through his, callused tips brushing softly against the back of Angus’ right hand. Then Scott runs his thumb up Angus’ wrist, and pushes back his sleeve, gently tugging on his arm as he grins, and pretends to put up a fight.

“You’re a cheeky lad, Scott Noon,” Angus murmurs, shaking his head.

Gordon feigns offence, sitting bolt upright and affecting a crestfallen expression. “And what am I, the Invisible Man?”

“No, not at all!” Angus says, crawling across the bed to snuggle up to both of them. “You’re just exemplary.”

“But what if I want to be a cheeky lad?” Gordon says.

Angus doesn’t have time to answer that--or, for that matter, question it--before the doorbell rings.

“Well, I can’t rely on my brother or my parents to answer that,” Angus says, grinning, “‘Cause we’re the only ones in the house, and, uh… much as I’m very glad about that in general, it does make for a bit of a hassle in answering the door.”

Gordon nuzzles Angus’ neck. “Whoever it is, if it’s that important, they’ll just break down the door. Stay here. Stay with us.” His tone is softly pleading.

“It might be important,” he says, just as reluctant to leave Gordon and Scott as they are to see him go. “I’ll be as quick as I can, I promise!”

Scott snorts with laughter, and hastily stifles it with his sleeve. “Sorry. Couldn’t resist.”

“Knave,” Angus mutters, rolling his eyes, but grinning as he kisses Gordon’s hand, then Scott’s, and plods out of his room and along the hallway to the front door.

Char stands on the doorstep, eyes wide and red-rimmed, dark brown hair windswept, olive skin pallid. She tries to smile, but Angus can tell something’s not quite right. But she does try to smile, so maybe… maybe it’s not that bad. Whatever it is. Maybe she’ll feel better if Angus acts like everything’s OK.

“Hey,” he says, glancing behind her and spotting the others--Tim and Stef--standing at the bottom of the drive.

In the street, there’s a car parked, with the windows rolled down, and Angus can’t see the driver’s face, but thinks he might recognise the car from Chase Valley. And he can’t see Tim and Stef’s faces clearly from here, and so he can’t work out if they’re OK or not. So he goes with the cheery side of things. Better not to assume the worst, after all.

“Holy shit, a whole party!” he exclaims, “Come in, come in. What’s the occasion?” He glances behind him at the faint light emanating from his bedroom, biting his lip as he thinks of Gordon and Scott, waiting for him. Should he feel guilty for hoping Char and the boys are only going to be here for a minute, that they’ve just popped in to say “hello”?

"Are the boys with you?" Char asks, "Gordon? Scott? We thought they might have gone to the tea-rooms, but your brother said they were in the house."

Angus nods. "Yeah, they're here… why don't you come in?"

The three of them make their way into Angus’ living room and sit down.

“Do you want to take a seat as well, Angus?” Char says, gesturing to an armchair.

Angus shakes his head. “I’m fine,” he says, crossing his fingers behind his back, and hoping they don’t stay too long. Any other evening this week, or any other evening at all, he’d have been happy to see Char, Stef and Tim, but, this evening, Gordon is craving cuddles. And, honestly, so is Angus. And Scott, even though he pretends to be too dignified to admit it.

But he suspects the craving for cuddles will be replaced by the need for hugs when Char says what she has to say.

"Something's happened in Chase Valley," she says quietly, "And Sophie's been hurt. Really badly."

The room spins around Angus, and he grips the arms of the chair nearest to him. "OK, I'm sitting down," he mumbles, "Tell me what happened. Was it Chris?"

Tim nods gravely. "He's been arrested. And Sophie's gone to hospital. In an ambulance."

"Oh, my God," Angus whispers, putting his head in his hands. "Someone go and fetch Gordon and Scott. They're in my room."

But Gordon and Scott are already in the he doorway of the living room.

"Sophie?" Gordon squeaks. His face is grey, and he looks like he's about to be sick.

Tears are streaming down Scott's face. He pulls his phone out of the pocket of his jeans, and dials Lena's number. But it just rings and rings and rings, and then, right when he thinks she's picked up, it goes to voicemail. "Lena? Lee, call me when you get this. Please. I don't know if you've heard about Soph, but…" He sighs, and shakes his head. "Just call me when you get this message. Or call someone. Please. I love you. And I hope you're OK. Please be OK."

Gordon and Angus wrap their arms around him, and he bows his head, sobbing.

"We've gotta go back," says Gordon, "Right now."

"Auntie Rose is waiting outside," Tim says, "She's got the car." He chews his lip. "There's not enough space for everyone to go at once."

"We can sit on laps," Angus says, "Me and Char."

Char exchanges a look with Stefan, both of them knowing that, if this were any other situation, they'd both be making a bunch of saucy jokes right now. And they both want it to be any other situation, so badly that it physically hurts.

But then Char nods. "Let's go," she says, wiping her eyes with the sleeve of her jacket.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

"Father Matthew?" Lena stumbles into the church and sinks to her knees by the backmost pew. "Father Matthew, are you there?"

The pain is blinding her, bursts of bright, bright light flashing across her vision like wildfire taking down a forest, and it's all she can do to stay conscious. God knows, she barely managed it, dragging herself out of the woods and down to the church. And what must she have looked like, crawling across the graveyard, over the bones of villagers past, of her own ancestors?

Lena clings to the wood of the pew, squeezing her eyes shut. "Father Matthew, I need help! Father!"

There’s a crash from the vestry, and then Father Matthew races down the aisle to stumble to a halt right before he trips over her. "My goodness, Lena! Who did this to you?" He takes the gentlest hold of her arm and examines the burns with horror and heartbreak in his eyes. “Lena… can you stand?”

Lena gets to her feet, dragging herself up with the pew. She cries out at every movement of her muscles, and, by the time she’s standing, she’s sobbing with the pain of it, feeling the heat from the cigarette lighter rip through her skin again, just as if Chris were right there, holding the fire to her arm.

And then the fire spreads, ripping up her thighs like a dirty knife. Blackness flashes across her vision, and she pants, unable to scream with her throat all shredded, but grinds her teeth until her jaw aches.

Father Matthew helps her into a pew like she’s so fragile she might shatter if he’s not careful. But of course he’s careful. He’s Father Matthew. “Will you be all right to wait here while I fetch the First Aid kit and a phone? I can give you something to clean your injuries, but you need a hospital, and you need your parents, and you need to report the person who did this to the police.”

“Chris,” Lena whispers, “He wanted to know who I was going out with, because he doesn’t know it’s Sophie. Or he didn’t I don’t know. Suddenly he stopped with the...” She trails off, swallows hard, and nods at her ruined arm. “And he just… walked off. I think I passed out. But when I came around, I didn’t know what time it was… and Chris was gone.”

Father Matthew nods. “I’ll be as quick as I can.” He turns and runs back up to the vestry, returning, true to his word, just a moment later. He’s already dialling 999, and he’s got a small First Aid kit clenched under his arm. “Yes, she’s been assaulted with… I don’t know. A cigarette lighter, maybe? The burns are small, but they’re nasty. Second degree, I think. Blisters. She’s conscious now, but she thinks she might have passed out when it first happened. And she’s passed out a few time since--”

Lena frowns at him. “I didn’t say that.”

“I know, but it’s...” He sighs. “It’s true, Lena. I came back with the First Aid kit and found you collapsed, so I ran to get the phone. I’m calling you an ambulance.”

Managing half a smile, Lena bows her head. “Thank you. I guess… I guess it’s a good thing I came to you instead of trying to find Gordon. If I’d asked him to call me an ambulance, he’d have said, “OK, Lena, you’re an ambulance.””

Father Matthew looks like he wants to laugh, but can’t bring himself to do it. He traps the phone between his ear and his shoulder, unzips the First Aid pack, and starts cleaning Lena’s burns, answering the dispatcher’s questions as he does. “Fifteen. Yes, she’s bleeding. Her head, her eyebrow, her nose… her lip’s bleeding, and her knees, too.” Then he pauses. “Lena, do you have any long-term illnesses?”

“Raynaud’s, yeah, but...” She shakes her head. “Nothing that matters right now.”

He nods, and repeats it to the dispatcher, then says, “We’re at the Church of St Andrew Corsini in Chase Valley. Please hurry. Thank you.”

Frowning, Lena thinks she remembers something from the moment she came into the church. “Did I hear something fall in the vestry?” she asks, “When I came in, there was a crash, wasn’t there? Or was that just me?” She looks around, thinking she might have knocked something over, but then Father Matthew shakes his head.

“No, I dropped something. The bag…” He sighs, and pinches the bridge of his nose, squeezing his eyes shut against tears. “The bag that I take with me when I go to administer the Last Rites.”

Lena’s stomach drops. “The Last Rites? Who… Who needs the Last Rites?”

Father Matthew turns to look at her, and his eyes are wet, despite his best efforts. “I had a call from the Wainwrights. It looks like… Lena, I’m so sorry. It looks like Chris went after Sophie as well.”

“But… But I only saw her this morning. How can she--” Lena clutches the crucifix at her throat, and realises it feels different. “Oh, my God, no, Sophie, no, I… I… We swapped our crucifixes. This morning. We swapped… This is hers.” With a roil of sickness, she remembers how Chris took hold of the small gold pendant, turned it over in his hand… and then left.

“Lena, whatever Chris did… whatever happened to Sophie… it’s not your fault. You know that, don’t you? Chris made a decision to hurt you, and then… he made a decision to...” He shakes his head. The words are unbearable. The thought is unbearable. These are children, going after each other, attacking each other, trying to kill each other. Lena is a child. Sophie is a child. And Chris, who has done so much damage… he’s a child, too. “It’s not your fault,” he repeats quietly, holding his hands out for Lena to hold. “Let me call your parents. Let me tell them what’s happened, and where you’re going from here. And by the time I’ve finished talking to them, I expect the ambulance will be here.”

“Did Sophie get an ambulance?” whispers Lena.

Father Matthews nods. “I think so. You have to prepare yourself, Lena… It doesn’t look good.”

Lena crosses herself, and then bursts into tears just as she presses the crucifix to her lips again. She rocks back and forth, holding it there, as if she might whisper her prayers directly through it to Sophie’s ears.

“I’m so sorry,” Father Matthews says, “It’s such a terrible thing. But she’s in the best possible hands. The doctors are taking care of her, and so is God.”

It’s never been harder to believe it, but somehow, Lena exhumes the strength, and squeezes her eyes shut in prayer for Sophie.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Angie yawns, and rubs her eyes, smearing a smut of mascara and eyeliner across her cheek. “Shall I pop the kettle on?” she asks Etta, kicking off her shoes and trudging through to the kitchen behind their mother.

“Hot chocolate?” Etta asks hopefully.

Angie winks at her.

But then Isobel Jones throws her arms out, blocking the kitchen doorway, and exclaims.

Etta and Angie peer over their mother’s shoulders.

The kitchen lights bounce off the broken glass. It’s all over the floor, like deadly confetti, and there’s a huge hole in the kitchen door where there used to be a clean pane of double-glazing. A cold breeze laughs in, and suddenly Bertie Carter is behind his family, tapping Isobel and Etta’s shoulders so that they’ll look at him.

“Go and sit in the front room while I call the police,” he signs, “If you think anything’s missing, come and tell me. But, for God’s sake, put your shoes on before you do.”

“I’m going to check upstairs,” Angie says, “Etta, are you coming?”

“No, you’re not!” Bertie snaps, “You’re going to sit in the front room with your mam, and, I’m going to call the police, and--”

Etta nods. “Come on, Angie. Let’s… I don’t know, watch telly. If it’s still there.”

“Don’t be glib,” Isobel signs, shooting her daughter a reproving glare.

“Sorry, Mummy,” Etta signs. She pulls her sister through to the front room as Bertie digs his mobile out of his pocket.

But then Angie stops at the bottom of the stairs. “What was that?” she signs, trying to pull away from Etta and go up.

“No!” Isobel signs, “You know what your Dad said. Go and sit in the living room. I’ll look. What did you hear?”

“I don’t know,” Angie signs, craning her neck to look up at the landing. “But it didn’t sound dangerous.”

Etta and Isobel stare at each other, both trying to work out what the Hell that’s meant to mean, but then Angie looses her hand from Etta’s, and sprints up the stairs before either she or Isobel can stop her.

“Angie!” Etta shouts.

Angie waves a hand dismissively, and stumbles around on the landing, looking around, shutting her eyes and cocking her head.

“What are you doing?” Etta calls.

Angie leans over the banisters. “Don’t make any noise!” she signs, “I’m trying to work out where it’s coming from.” She frowns, and turns around slowly on the spot, then snaps her fingers. “Got it,” she signs, marching off towards the front of the house. She disappears.

Etta doesn’t wait for her mother’s approval. She’s waited too long already. She races up the stairs after her little sister, and finds her heaving at the chest of drawers which usually stands against the wall in their parents’ room. It holds all the clothes they don’t keep in the wardrobe, and it’s way too heavy for Angie to be pushing on her own.

But right now it’s sitting squatly in front of the door to the airing cupboard, and Angie’s face is so screwed up and purple that Etta rushes forward to help her shift the thing before she really knows what she’s doing.

The chest’s chunky feet cut thick furrows in the carpet of the landing as the girls shove it back into their parents’ room. At least it’s the closest one… but, then again… that’s probably why it was used… by whoever used it to barricade the airing cupboard. The same person--or people--who broke the window in the kitchen door?

For a moment, how it got there doesn’t matter as much, with all the effort of forcing it aside… and then, when Angie can finally yank the door open, how it got there doesn’t matter at all.

Because there’s a tiny figure hunched, shaking, in the cupboard, bony limbs folded up against a vacuum cleaner and a mop and bucket. Streaks of blood in brown hair, on pale skin, on sharp cheekbones, staining a dirty blouse. The acrid smell of stale pee and sweat and terror.

“Ffion,” Etta breathes, dropping to her knees and wrapping her arms around her friend. “Oh, my God, what happened to you? What happened?” She looks up at Angie and sees her opening her phone.

“Ambulance,” Etta signs.

Angie nods.

Ffion’s bloody hands are trembling as she pulls away, but she manages to fingerspell, “Chis… and Paol.”

“Chris and Paul?” Etta repeats, “Chris and Paul did this? Oh, my God, what-- I don’t even-- How?”

“I’m sorry,” Ffion whispers, “I wanted to come and find you earlier, warn you want they were going to do, but… but my parents shut me in my room… and I had to smash a window to get out, and then… and then, when I did, I only got to your house just in time. And I heard Chris coming, and I thought maybe if I broke in, I could stop him.”

She’s sitting close enough to Etta that her words are audible, now that Angie’s gone into their room and shut the door, so that she can speak to the dispatcher.

Etta’s face falls. “You did the kitchen window?”

Ffion blinks. “What?” And then she realises what Etta means. “Oh. No, no… that was Chris and Paul. I came in through the bathroom window. I didn’t break it, I promise. No, I heard them break into the kitchen, and then...” She trails off, and frowns. “But I can’t remember what happened next.”

Etta shakes her head. “You don’t need to remember. You need help. I’m gonna get my Mum, OK? And then I’m gonna get you some clean clothes. If the ambulance gets here before you can change… or if you don’t think you can change...” She scans Ffion’s battered body, taking in all the weals and scratches, all the blood… all the bruises.

Bruises around her neck, like a grisly scarf. Just what did Chris and Paul do?

“You don’t have to do that,” Ffion mumbles, casting her eyes away, “You don’t have to do anything for me. I let you down.” She starts to cry, hanging her head and wrapping her arms around her knees. “I’m sorry. I’m so sorry.”

Etta hugs her again. She knows Ffion’s said something, but she didn’t hear it. But right now she doesn’t care about words. Only about Ffion. “Shh, shh,” she whispers, “It’s OK. It’s OK.”

Ffion sobs against Etta’s shoulder, and then starts to shake, violently.

Etta pulls away, and holds her at arm’s length, studying her. “Ffion? What’s happening? Are you having a seizure? Ffion?”

Ffion’s panting hard and her face--usually pale at the best of times--has turned the pale grey of a waterlogged newspaper. “Chris came here because he wanted… wanted to know… wanted to know if you were “Tilly”.”

“Lena’s girlfriend?” Etta says.

“I know you aren’t,” Ffion says, “And I tried to stop him. I tried, I tried, but… I don’t know. When I came around, I was in that cupboard… and I couldn’t get out. And it didn’t seem to matter how hard I tried to scream… I couldn’t do it. My throat...” She touches the hollow of her neck, and flinches as her fingers brush against her bruises. “I barely have any voice left. And nobody came.” She hangs her head. “And then I heard the front door go, just now. So I started kicking the hoover, hoping someone might hear. And Angie did.”

Etta nods. “Angie found a chest of drawers in front of the cupboard,” she says, “That’s why you couldn’t get out. You were blocked in. I’m so sorry.” Again, she wraps her arms around Ffion, rocking her gently from side to side. “I’m gonna go and get my Mum now, OK?”

Ffion gives Etta a half-hearted thumbs-up.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

By the time the paramedics arrive, Isobel Carter Jones has read everything Ffion’s written in the notebook she pulled out of the gifts cupboard. She’s read it all, cried, and then read it again. And cried again.

Ffion writes terribly fast, and puts onto the paper everything she remembers about the last… how many hours? She doesn’t know what time it is. She’s not even sure what day it is anymore. How long was she in the cupboard?

She writes about Chris’ barging into the GSA, about his dragging her into the boys’ toilets to try to enlist her for his “detective work”. She writes about her parents coming back from the village hall and going through her phone, finding her texts from Gordon, and assuming the worst. She writes about how her mother grabbed the collar of her shirt and held her up off the ground, so that her feet dangled like criminals on the gallows. Waking up tied to her bed, having to break out of her room, landing in broken glass… seeing her hand full of shards.

At least it wasn’t her writing hand, she thinks to herself with a sick smile. Talk about looking for a bright side.

She writes about climbing through the window of the Carter Joneses bathroom, and then about waking up in the cupboard, and being rescued by Etta and Angie.

The paramedics read it, too, and ask Ffion if she’s ever called Childline. “Or talked to anyone at school?”

Ffion shakes her head. “How? I’ve been tied up, shut in a cupboard… and it’s Saturday. Etta told me so. Who’s at school on a Saturday?”

The younger paramedic is called Beth. And Beth sighs. “I mean before today. There’s no way this was the first incident. When things like this happen… they’re never the first incidents.”

“I’ve never had the energy,” Ffion whispers, “Do you know what it’s like, thinking about reporting your parents for hitting you when one one of them is looking so hard for a job that her hair falls out, and the other one is dying? I’m a Christian. The Bible says to honour your parents. “Honour thy father and mother.””

The older paramedic--Moira--has a wrinkled face and a Welsh accent. “I guess they also talked a lot about spoiling the child by sparing the rod,” she mutters to her colleague. To Ffion, she says, “I’m afraid I don’t hold to the Bible much, except where it says, “God is love.””

Ffion smiles properly for the first time that day. “You sound like my friends.” And then her face falls, as she thinks of Tim and Sophie and Lena… and realises why she was alone when she came around. Why Chris might have shoved her into the cupboard.

And she swallows hard. “You haven’t had any callouts today, have you?”

“Generally?” Beth asks, “We’re paramedics. We’re always being called out to someone or other. It’s what we do. Help people.” She shines a torch into Ffion’s eyes. “There, you see? That’s helpful, because now we know you’re not concussed. Which is surprising. Now, let’s take a look at your ankle.”

Ffion flinches as the paramedics handle her foot, and she’s torn between shutting her eyes so that she doesn’t see it, and craning her neck to watch, because she’s never seen an ankle that colour before.

“Does it hurt?” Moira asks.

Ffion nods. “Yes!” she squeaks, squeezing her eyes shut as a jolt of pain rips through the bones of her foot, and all the way up to her knee.

“Sorry, sorry, sorry,” Beth says, wrapping a cold compress around Ffion’s foot. “I’m really sorry. I think your ankle’s probably broken. Given what you’ve been through today, it’s not surprising, but...” She shakes her head. “It’s not the sort of thing we can fix here. We’re gonna have to take you to hospital, I’m afraid, get you an X-ray, and see what we can do. Is that all right?”

“Do what you have to,” Ffion mumbles. But then she remembers what she said a moment ago, and realises that the paramedics only answered the question she did ask, and not the question she meant to ask. “Did you have any callouts to Chase Valley?” she says, hoping she’ll be met with a shaken head and a smile.

She would give anything to be alone in this.

But she’s not alone.

Moira nods. “Yours is the fourth ambulance today,” she says gently, “The first one we’ve been driving, but… a few of our colleagues have come here today.”

“Who?” Ffion asks, her already-croaky voice suddenly even weaker.

Beth shakes her head. “That’s not the sort of information we get,” she says, “But… if you’re concerned about anyone in particular, then we can call the hospital for you and find out if they’ve been admitted.”

“No, no,” Ffion replies, “No, I don’t want to know… I don’t want to think about it. i was hoping you’d say “no”.”

“OK,” says Beth. She and Moira exchange a glance, and then she adds, “I’m sure everyone was fine in the end. Just needed patching up at home, yeah? You, meanwhile, need a bit more patching up. So let’s get you away to hospital.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Ffion watches blood drip, drip, dripping into the bag hanging by her bed. A long tube runs from the bag into the back of her hand, and she eyes that too, with its stubby needle and all that ugly masking tape. Bandages criss-crossing her palms excluded, she's acutely aware of how much her hands look like her father's. For the first time she realises that they're actually the same shape, the same build. Now they're practically identical.

Blue curtains hang all around, and although they block out the stares of the other patients on the Major ward, they do nothing to block out the sounds they make, the crying, the raving, the screaming.

So she tries to distract herself by counting the objects around her. Not that it helps much, given where she is and what's there. It turns out that "I Spy" isn't a fun game when you're lying in a hospital bed, bruises throbbing, cuts burning, headache banging, ankle on fire even after a heavy dose of codeine. She's still waiting for an X-ray, not that she needs one to know.

Her ankle is not meant to be that shape. Or that colour. Nobody's is. It's broken.

And Char and Etta are here. But Ffion has no idea what to say to them. The way they look at her… It hurts. It's like they're trying to hug her, but setting off all her bruises. She knows they mean well, but when they look at her so sadly, she can't help but feel pitied. And the end result is her in pain, feeling bewildered and lost and ultimately just as alone as she was in that cupboard for hours and hours and hours.

A whole lifetime in the dark.

Her whole hand is numb except for that one patch, which… how can she describe it? It’s like a dull ache, but there’s something sharp lodged in it like a splinter. It’s the needle, and she knows it’s the needle, but whenever she looks at anything other than her hand or the drip, she panics and thinks there’s still a shard of glass stuck in her hand.

But a nurse pulled all of those out with a pair of tweezers and a bundle of apologies and a roll of gauze, and then asked her if she was going anywhere nice for her holidays.

And Ffion looked at Etta and Char--who came to Etta’s house as soon as she spotted the car outside--and shrugged. “Guess I’m just gonna hang around Chase Valley with my friends.” It was a lie, and she knew it was a lie when she said it, but she liked to imagine it might be true. She still likes to imagine it might be true, and dreams of swimming in the lake, of learning to dive from Char, of learning to sign from Etta, so that the three of them can talk underwater.

"Oh, Chase Valley's nice," said the nurse, "Do you know the tea-rooms there? I love it. Sometimes I just curl up in the corner with my knitting and a cappuccino. Can you knit?"

Ffion nodded, but then wobbled her head from side to side noncommittally. "Kind of," she mumbled, "I learned when I was younger, but I never learned how to get it started, only how to carry on from what my Nan put on the needles."

"I'll teach you," Char said, reaching out to stroke Ffion's shoulder. "Have you making a whole wardrobe of cardis and pullovers in no time, you'll see."

But Ffion knew then what she still knows now: something that's becoming clearer as the footsteps get louder on the lino. Closer. They're coming up the ward.

There'll be Hell to pay just for getting out of her room. And that's probably all her Mum and Dad know. God alone knows what they'll say about the window. God alone knows where they'll find the money to replace the glass.

Ffion shudders, and braces herself for the explosion.

"You have a lot of explaining to do," snaps her mother, yanking aside the curtains and exposing Ffion to the whole ward. "I thought I told you to stay in your room." She looks sharply at Etta and Char. "You two can get out," she spits.

Char turns to Etta and signs, "She wants us to go."

Etta's beestung lips disappear, leaving her mouth a hard line. She gets up from the ugly orange chair she's been sitting in since Ffion was admitted, and draws herself up to her full height. "You want us to go? Why the Hell should you get to decide something like that?" Her voice cracks, and then thickens as her eyes start swimming. "Why the Hell should you get to decide anything for her ever again? You had your chance. Don't complain to us because you pissed it up the wall."

"How dare you--" Mrs McDade snaps, "I am Ffion's mother. How dare you presume to… Who the Hell do you think you are?"

"You probably know me as the "nice hearing-impaired girl"," Etta replies flatly, "But my friends--and I'm proud as proud to call Ffion one of them--call me Etta." She's scowling, staring Mrs McDade down even though Etta's actually the shorter of the two by several inches.

There's fire in her eyes, an ancient fire. Boudicca and her army marching on London, burning it to the ground. Briseis standing up to Achilles, squaring her shoulders and meeting his gaze with her stare.

Mrs McDade sighs. "Look, it's been the most awful day. I'd like it if you and Charlotte would give me and my daughter some privacy, Etta."

Etta ignores Mrs McDade's plea, and pushes right on. "You're not my friend," she says, tutting loudly, "Bloody Hell, and hearing people like to think it's us Deafies who don't listen. I do love irony." But she's not smiling. "You can call me Ms Carter Jones. Consider me your daughter's advocate."

Mrs McDade laughs in Etta's face. "Now you're just being ridiculous." She pushes past Etta and tries to grab Ffion's drip.

But Char grabs her arm and stops her. "You really don't want to do that," she says, "I'm warning you. I've had a lot of coffee and just about enough bullshit today. Ffion isn't the only one of my friends who was rushed to hospital in an ambulance today."

"A word with you, if you please," says Mrs McDade, taking hold of Char's sleeve and pulling her out of the bay.

She whips the curtain shut behind her, and whispers so low that it sounds threatening. "Ffion isn't the only one of my family members who was rushed to hospital in an ambulance today," she snaps, "Since you didn't ask. Did you know her father was ill? He died. This morning. He had an asthma attack and he died just after he got to hospital. He died. He's dead. So don't take the moral high ground. You haven't had a worse day than I have; don't be so fucking sanctimonious. My husband is dead."

Char's heart misses a step, and the ward spins around her. Did she hear that properly? Ffion's Dad is… "Dead?"

“Yes,” says Mrs McDade, her voice splintering like rotten wood, “I lost my husband this morning. So if you could please let me tell my daughter, I would appreciate it. Thank you.”

Suddenly Char finds the words ripping out of her mouth, so far beyond her control that even she is shocked by them. “You almost lost your daughter, too,” she snaps, “Twice. Most recently, when she was beaten to a fucking pulp trying to help her friends, and before that, only last night, I might add, when you choked the life out of her for contacting them. And then you left her tied up in her bedroom. Give me one good reason why I should let you speak to her. Give me one good reason why I shouldn’t call the police right now and tell them--.”

Mrs McDade slaps Char so hard in the face that the air itself rings. “You little slut! How dare you?!”

But Char just stares at Mrs McDade, eyes hard and dry, jaw stiff and resolute. “Go ahead and hit me again,” she says, “I’m sure the cops would love it if I had bruises they could trace back to you. Do you know, I think I heard somewhere that they work a bit like handprints?” Char hasn’t heard this anywhere, but Mrs McDade doesn’t need to know that. Char runs with her words, just letting them fall from her mouth, knowing that they’ll land in the right place, even if she can’t work out where inside her they’re coming from. “They can look at the shape of a bruise that comes rom a slap, and match it to the person’s hand.” She doesn’t know if it’s true, and she doesn’t care. She feel like she’s shaking violently, but, when she glances at her body, she realises that she’s actually standing perfectly still, a rigid pillar. “So if they find fingerprints in one bruise, they can match those to a person, and prove, prove, that the same person was responsible for whatever other bruises. Did you know that?”

Mrs McDade’s eyes are scarlet around the rimmed, but her face loses all the rest of its colour in that moment. “You wouldn’t dare.”

“I’m very daring, actually,” Char replies, “Case in point: I’m going to dare to suggest that Ffion has had the most awful day she has ever known in her whole life. Or will ever know. She lost her father this morning. She no longer has a mother. Two of her friends were taken away in ambulances. And nobody knows if they’re even still alive. So you may have lost your husband, but you certainly haven’t lost a daughter. You’ve thrown her away, and the pain she feels from that is so much worse than anything you could possibly understand. I’m the daring one. You aren’t. So don’t you dare stand in front to me and say you want to speak to her. The time to speak to her is long past. If you want to speak to her now, you do it through me, Etta, or the police, when they get here.” She glares. “They’re on their way to the hospital to take Ffion’s statement, and she wrote it down before she came here, so.”

“What’s going on?” calls Ffion from the other side of the curtain. “I can’t hear what you’re saying!”

Char pulls the curtain aside and steps through, shutting it firmly behind her before Mrs McDade can follow her into the bay. She sits down beside Ffion’s bed, and strokes her blood-matted hair as softly as she can. “Ffion, sweetie… There’s something you need to know. And I’m so sorry… but it’s bad news.”

Ffion’s face crumples. “They’re taking me home, aren’t they?” she whispers. And then she laughs harshly, the burst of sound like a bark in her broken voice. “There goes you, teaching me how to knit. They’re never gonna let me out of the house again.”

Char shakes her head. "It's not that, darling. But it's not…" She sighs. "It's not better. I'm so sorry, Ffion, but… your Dad died this morning. It was an asthma attack, and…" She trails off, shaking her head. Then she signs it for Etta: "Ffion's Dad is dead," before talking to Ffion again. "I'm so sorry. That's… That's why your Mum's here. That's why she's so upset."

Ffion nods, and her face crumples. "That's why there was nobody in the house when I came around this morning." Her eyes widen. "That's why the paramedics said mine wasn't the first ambulance to come to Chase Valley today. There was Sophie's ambulance… and there was Dad's… and there was mine." She touches the bruises on her throat, and flinches hard. It's more painful than she thought it would be.

"Are you OK?" Etta asks, her eyes large and full of tears.

Ffion nods. "I… I think so… That doesn't make me a bad person, does it? I'm not a bad person for not crying, am I?" She frowns. "I always thought I would, when it happened. And I never thought it would be so soon, but…" She shakes her head, trailing off.

Mrs McDade yanks the curtains aside. Her face is stained with tears, and there's a new flood of anguish rushing from her eyes as she stands there on the spot, barking at Ffion with the sharpest voice Chat has ever heard. "The least you could do is cry!" she snaps, "You heartless little bitch! Your father is dead! He died in the most horrible way, and you're sitting here, staring into space, like it doesn't even matter, like you don't even care!"

"I care," Ffion mumbles, "Of course I care; he's my Dad… but I don't know how I feel about him dying." Now her voice is cold, and almost as sharp as Mrs McDade's. "This morning he died. Yesterday evening he sat and watched while you tried to kill me." She glares at her mother, and features to her throat. It's scarlet and violet and black with bruises, darkest where her collar was tightened. "You did this, Mum… and he just sat there and watched. He didn't do anything. He didn't even speak."

She looks up and sees a doctor standing in the space between the open curtains. She's been here more than enough times to recognise the scrubs for each role.

Doctor. Nurse. Orderly. Each one wears a different colour.

She's just never been a patient before, she thinks, glancing down at her own pale lilac smock. It's made from and something more like paper than fabric, but it's better than the bloodstained school uniform she was wearing when she came in.

Just about anything's better than that.

"What's going on here?" says the doctor quietly, "Is everything all right?"

"No!" says Ffion, suddenly bursting into tears, "No, nothing's all right!"

"Well, I'm here to take you for your X-ray," says the doctor, "So we can work out what's best for that ankle. Come down to Radiology with me and we can talk about it, OK?"

"Only if Char and Etta can come with me," Ffion replies, and then we casts a sharp glance at her mother. "And she stays here."

The doctor looks at Ffion's chart. "It says here you're only fifteen. You need a responsible adult with you, and it really ought to be a relative."

"I'm her mother," says Mrs McDade.

Ffion acts as though her mother isn't even there. "Char and Etta are my sisters," she says quickly.

The doctor's obviously sympathetic, but what's also obvious is that she's heard that line about a hundred times before, and although Ffion's trying to ignore her mother's glare, she can't fend off the venom in it.

Ffion sighs. "OK, they're not actually, but they're the closest thing I've got. They're my best friends. Etta and her sister found me, Char knows more about what happened today, and she can interpret for Etta. Meanwhile my Mum is half the reason I'm here."

"Oh," says the doctor quietly, making notes on Ffion's chart and pulling her pager from her pocket. "I'll wait here with you while we wait for security to arrive. Is there anyone we can call for you? Dad, maybe, or someone else in your family? Or a neighbour?"

"We can call my Mum," Char suggests, taking Ffion's hand.

But Ffion shakes her head. "Thanks," she mumbles, "But…" She looks at the doctor. "Is there any way to get hold of my brothers?"

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

There are dark blue patches all over Sophie's face, a broad white bandage around her head, and her left eye is swollen shut, a great scarlet balloon protruding from her face. An oxygen monitor is clipped to the tip of her index finger, and a fine tune runs across her face, feeding oxygen to her nose. Two large white pillows cushion her poor broken head, and a dark red shirt with a cream plaid lies flat across her chest.

She blinks slowly, mumbles something that may or may not be words, and lifts her head, wincing, before lying back down. "It hurts," she whispers, "It hurts so much."

The nurse at Sophie's bedside smiles at her gently. "It's all right. Now that you're awake, you can have something for the pain." She fiddles with the tubes going into the crook of Sophie's arm, and then sits back down. "That should help a bit. Do you know where you are? Do you know what happened?"

Chris. Chris in her room. Chris pinning her wrists. Chris shouting. Pain. So fucking much pain so suddenly and then--

Nothing.

"Well, I'm obviously in a hospital, aren't I?" Sophie mumbles, "Don't know which one, but…" She catches sight of the nurse's badge, and manages to make out a few letters: "N.T.G.H." Then she nods, and almost smiles, but her face is aching, and moving other than to speak is horrific. "Oh, aye, North Tyneside General," she says, "My girlfriend was born here."

"Lena?" says the nurse, and, when Sophie nods, says, "She's been asking for you. That’s her shirt, standing in for a blanket. She asked it to be put on your bed, so you’d have something familiar to see when you woke up. Shall I get you a wheelchair, and you can go and say hello?"

"Lena's here?" whispers Sophie, "What's Lena doing here?"

The nurse blinks hard. "You know what happened to you… why you're here. Something similar happened… happened to Lena. She's OK. She's going to be just fine, and she's already OK. You're OK, too. You woke up for a little while earlier, and had a CT scan, to check everything was all right in your head, because you were hit very hard. When that happens, the brain can swell, or blood vessels can break, and it can be really dangerous, but it didn't happen with you. That boy cracked your skull, but your X-rays show it's nothing serious. It'll heal on its own." She smiles. "You're gonna be OK, and you're not gonna have to deal with him again. He's been arrested. And your crucifix is just here," she says, picking up a small dish from Sophie's bedside table and handing her the chain with its pendant.

The silver chain with its silver pendant.

"This is how he found me," Sophie whispers, her eyes swimming, "This is my girlfriend's crucifix. She's got mine. That's how… That's how…"

"You're OK, and your girlfriend's OK, and she's sitting on the Burns ward, waiting for you. So if you'd like to go and see her, well, I can't run to push you over there, but I can get you there as fast as I can. Whenever you're ready."

“Burns ward?” repeats Sophie, heart pounding.

The nurse nods, and holds her hand out so that Sophie can take it if she wants to. “That boy hurt her with a cigarette lighter, sweetie,” she says quietly, “She’s OK now, but she’s had to be patched up on the Burns ward, and she’ll be staying there overnight. You’ll be staying here. We want to keep an eye on you for a little bit.”

"I don't want to wait another minute," Sophie whispers, "What time is it? I was meant to go and see her after work. I just needed a little nap first, and then… and then…"

"It's just gone half past ten," says the nurse, glancing at her watch, "I should probably say that’s ten p.m. You've lost a few hours, but it's still the same day. Saturday.”

Sophie nods weakly, thinking of how much she could have lost, if God hadn’t been watching over her. Or if He had taken Chris’ side instead. She shudders, and winces as her bruises shout pain through her body. “Thanks,” she whispers, “And… where are my parents? Do they know I’m here?”

“They’re talking to the police right now,” the nurse says, touching Sophie’s hand, “Trying to give them as clear a picture as possible of what happened. Lena’s parents are with them, too.” She smiles. “You’ve got good parents, both of you. Now, let’s get you reunited.”

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

As the nurse pushes Sophie’s wheelchair down the corridor to the Burns ward, Sophie grips the armrests, and stares at the outline her knees make through the papery fabric of her hospital gown. The crucifix bumps softly against the neckline, rustling as she leans forward, and squeezes her eyes shut, hoping she’s wrong about how badly Chris has hurt Lena.

But then they turn a corner, and push through a pair of swinging doors, and onto the ward, and Lena’s sitting up in bed, writing in a notebook, and her arms are bandaged, and her hair is gone, and her face is covered in bruises and cuts.

But she’s sitting up, and she looks just like herself, and Sophie is so relieved that she actually cries out, and both Lena and Archie--who is sitting by her bed--look up, and beam at her.

“Sweetie!” Lena exclaims, throwing aside the notebook and holding out her arms as the nurse pushes Sophie up to the bedside. There’s a cannula sticking out of Lena’s arm as well, hooked up to a drip, and the tube connecting the two bobs around like a washing line in the breeze, but she’s as bright and sparky as a set of Christmas lights hooked up to the mains.

“Oh, my God, darling, your hair,” Sophie whispers, her eyes filling with tears. Everything else that Chris has done is fixable: injuries and trauma can be treated. But there’s nothing to do for shorn-off hair. You can only wait for it to grow back. And keep yourself out of photos to keep your hair out of your memories. And Lena… Lena has barely any hair left at all.

But Lena shrugs, and shakes her head. “It’s fine. I’m gonna get it cut properly. I was thinking about an undercut.”

Sophie’s arms ache to wrap around Lena, but then the nurse helps her out of her wheelchair, and gives her a hand to get onto the bed without snagging her IV.

“Press this button if you need any help,” she says, indicating a red alarm key on the monitor attached to the drip stand. “I have to go back to my ward, but I’ll ask someone to let your parents know that you’re awake, and I’ll let them know where you are, as well.” Then she nods at Archie. “I’m trusting you, young Sir, to look after these two.”

Archie salutes her with a grin. “I’ll make sure not to disappoint,” he says.

Lena wraps her arm around Sophie, squeezing her eyes shut against the pain of movement until she’s settled, and the agony’s gone. “I’m so sorry,” she whispers into Sophie’s hair, closing her eyes and breathing in her girlfriend’s scent. It’s still there, still familiar, but so much fainter - sharp bleach and brutal iron clang over the usual soft notes of frankincense and coffee - but at least it’s there.

“It’s not your fault,” Sophie whispers, “This was Chris, all Chris. And now he’s going to pay.” She rests her head against Lena’s collarbone, and then her eyes fill with tears as Lena flinches. “Oh, sweetheart, I’m so sorry! What did I catch? Did I hurt you?”

“Just a bruise,” mumbles Lena, kissing Sophie’s forehead as gently as she can. “Just a bruise I wasn’t expecting. But it’s OK. I’m OK, and you’re OK. It’s all going to be OK.”

Soph nods. “Do you know if the others know where we are?”

“I’ve texted Scott and Tim, told him to pass on the message that you’re both here,” says Archie, “But that was a little while ago, so… shall I text them again, to say you’re both here together, now?”

Lena shakes her head. “We can tell them ourselves, can’t we?” She smiles, and picks her phone up off the mattress next to her. “Thanks for bringing this in, Arch,” she says. Then she turns to Sophie with a grin, and says, “I have the best brother, actually. And I’m not just saying that ‘cause he knows where I live. I actually do feel a bit sorry for everyone else, missing out.”

Sophie giggles, but then she and Lena notice that Archie’s not giggling. Instead, he’s gripping the arms of the chair he’s sat in, and his face is pale. And, slowly, the two of them realise what Lena’s said, and what it’s bringing to Archie’s mind.

He’s not the only one who knows where she lives. And today that counted for all too much.

“I think we should send a snap around, don’t you?” Lena says, opening her phone and firing up Snapchat. She holds the phone up, her arm around Sophie’s shoulder, and beams as bravely and as brightly as she can. And that’s pretty damn bravely and brightly. “Maybe if we’d had a choice in the matter, we’d have been able to announce it like this… the fact that we were together. Ah, well.”

Sophie grins as Lena shows her the picture. “I reckon we can still make a nice little announcement,” she says, “And I reckon we should. There’s no reason to hide it anymore, is there? Chris has been arrested, so he’s not gonna bother us, and, well… it’s not as if anyone else is gonna be a prick about it.”

“I reckon you’re right,” Lena says, “I’ll send it to the others, and I’ll put i on my Snapchat story as well, yeah?” She looks down at her screen, and drums her thumbs against the casing. “What shall we put as a caption? I feel like we should make it funny, to cheer everyone up.”

Archie shakes his head. “Just say you’re both OK,” he mumbles, “Make that the first thing you say. Then make a joke afterwards if you want. Just get the reassurance across first, yeah?” He’s staring at the two of them as if he’s trying to convince himself that they’re there. That they’re really there.

-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-:-

Ffion’s doctor holds X-ray films up to the light, and points to what Ffion realises must have been her ankle. Now it’s just a pile of shattered bone, which… yeah, that would explain a lot. “This is where it’s broken,” the doctor says, “You landed on it when you fell out of your window, didn’t you?”

Ffion nods. “I was trying to climb out, and I slipped,” she mumbles, squeezing Etta’s hand as she watches Char interpret.

“It’s a miracle you were able to get as far as you did with it like this,” says the doctor, “I can only think you must have blocked out the pain with the stress, and...” She shakes her head. “You know you’re brave, don’t you? Do you know?”

Char presses a kiss to Ffion’s forehead. “We tell her as often as we can,” she says.

“We’re going to have to operate, I’m afraid,” the doctor says, “As soon as possible. You’re going to need pins to hold the bone together, and then you’re going to need traction while it heals, and then going to need physiotherapy.”

Ffion scrunches her eyes shut, thinking of how that’s going to play havoc with her looking after her… And then she stops herself. Because that’s not her job anymore. It’s not anyone’s job anymore. “So I’m not going home for a while, then,” she mumbles, biting her nails.

Etta softly moves Ffion’s hand away from her mouth, and holds both of Ffion’s hands between her own.

“You probably shouldn’t go back to your Mum at all,” the doctor says, “And if the police have anything to do with it, you won’t have to. I’ve sent a message to the receptionists, asking them to search for your brothers in the system. They were born in this hospital, weren’t they?”

Ffion nods. “All three of us were.”

The doctor smiles. “That should make it a lot easier to find their records. If we can find where they’re registered now--where they go when they see their GPs--then we should be able to get their contact details from there.”

“How soon can I go in for the surgery?” Ffion asks, her heart slowing down as it warms up.

Squinting at the films, the doctor furrows her brow, and then looks up. “I think we can probably get you into theatre within an hour. I can’t see any evidence of a blood clot on here, and you still have a pulse in your foot, so I don’t think you’re in immediate danger, but… you’re badly hurt. And the sooner we can fix that, the better.”

“Blood clot?” Char says, “Like… the kind of blood clot that cuts off supply?”

Ffion nods. “That’s most of them. But it’s fine. If I haven’t got one yet, then… it’s just a matter of stopping it happening. Don’t worry,” she says, pulling one hand free from Etta’s so that she can hold Char’s as well. She squeezes both. “Everything’s gonna be OK.”